
 THE
 MYSTERIOUS WANDERER.

 A NOVEL:
 IN THREE VOLUMES.

 Dedicated, by Permission,
 _TO THE RIGHT HON. LADY ELIZABETH SPENCER._

 BY SOPHIA REEVE.

 VOL. I.

 LONDON:

 PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY C. SPILSBURY, ANGEL-COURT,
 SNOW-HILL;

 AND SOLD BY RICHARDSON AND SON, ROYAL-EXCHANGE;
 J. HIGHLEY, FLEET-STREET; AND DIDIER AND TEBBETT,
 ST. JAMES'S-STREET.

 1807.




ADVERTISEMENT.


In committing the following sheets to the press, I have acted in
compliance with the partial wishes of a few friends. I am aware that my
story has many imperfections; but it being a first essay, and having
been written solely for my own amusement, during a winter season, I
trust, will plead with a liberal public, to soften the severity of
criticism: and if, whilst I furnish a few hours entertainment to my
readers, I may hope to have implanted a generous sentiment--or to have
checked the tendency to a vicious one--I shall esteem myself happy, and
feel my labours amply rewarded.

                                                         THE AUTHOR.

  _Feb. 1, 1807._




TO

THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

LADY ELIZABETH SPENCER.


MADAM,

The protection your Ladyship has so generously granted to this little
offspring of my leisure hours, whilst it has impressed my mind with
the most grateful sentiments, has fully evinced the benevolence and
condescension which so eminently distinguish your character. Truly a
pupil of nature, I little expected that the productions of my fancy
would please--or indeed be read by--any, but my intimate friends, till
your Ladyship's flattering approbation of the following tale, encouraged
me to offer it to the world.

Should THE MYSTERIOUS WANDERER be favourably received by the public, it
will be my highest pride to acknowledge my obligation to your Ladyship;
should it be consigned to oblivion--I shall ever, with gratitude,
remember the honour and favour you have conferred on,

                       Madam,
              Your Ladyship's much obliged,
                         and
                Most obedient humble servant,

                                                       SOPHIA REEVE.




THE MYSTERIOUS WANDERER.




CHAPTER I.


"Of all the passions inherent in man, I think pride the most despicable,
and for which he has the least excuse! If he have sense and abilities,
they ought rather to guard his bosom from so contemptible an inmate,
than implant it there. It is a passion insulting to reason, beneath the
generosity of human nature, and in the highest degree degrading to the
character of a British sailor."

Such were the sentiments of Frederick Howard, addressed to a fellow
officer, (remarkable for his pride and haughtiness) as they walked
toward the pier-head at Yarmouth, on their return to the Argo man of
war, then stationed in the roads. Already were they in the boat which
was to convey them on board, when a youth about seventeen ran up to
them, and, with wildness and distress in his aspect, entreated they
would take him with them.

"Take you with us!" said Lieutenant Harland, sternly, "who are you?"

"For God's sake, ask no questions, but take me with you," said the
youth, and immediately jumped into the boat.

"Get back, fellow! knock him over!" cried the exasperated Lieutenant.

"Not in my presence, George;" said Frederick;--"he entreats
protection--if he deserve it, it ought to be granted: if he do not, we
have no right to maltreat him." He pushed the boat off, and they were
conveyed on board.

Captain Howard, the uncle of Frederick, was justly esteemed for the
generosity of his disposition; his heart, indeed, was the seat of
philanthropy, and never did the indigent or unhappy sue in vain. On
being informed by his nephew of his conduct to the stranger, he
expressed his approbation, at the same time desiring to see him. The
youth was accordingly summoned. He entered the cabin with a modest bow,
and, to the Captain's interrogation of who he was? answered--One brought
up in expectation of a better fate; till an adverse stroke of fortune
had bereaved him of all his early prospects of happiness.

"Do you belong to Yarmouth, young man?" asked the Captain.

"No, sir, I come from Caermarthen."

"Ha--what--Caermarthen! Tell me, who is your father?--what is your
name?"

"I have not a father," sighed the youth, "My name is--(he faltered as he
spoke it)--Henry St. Ledger."

The animated hope expressed in the countenance of the Captain, suffered
a momentary depression on hearing the name of the youth; but returned
with redoubled glow as he repeated--"You have not a father!--Oh
God!--How did you lose him?--When did he die?"

"About two years since," replied St. Ledger, dashing a tear from his
cheek.

The Captain's agitation increased. "Are you certain he was your father?
Did no obscurity,--no secrecy, attend your birth?" "Neither, sir; my
birth was honourable; welcomed with joy: though I, alas! was decreed by
heaven to experience the bitterest misery."

Disappointment took possession of the Captain's features, on this
information: he sighed deeply, and, leaning back in his chair, covered
his face with his hand.

He was recalled from his reverie, by his nephew expressing his surprise
at the emotions St. Ledger had occasioned him.

"Ah! Frederick," replied the Captain; "there is something in his
appearance----"

"Certainly not very prepossessing;" interrupted Lieutenant Harland: "to
judge by that, I should take him for a pauper--or something worse."

Till that moment the habiliments of St. Ledger had been disregarded by
Captain Howard and his nephew; it was St. Ledger himself, who engaged
their attentions: he was pale and emaciated, but with features more than
commonly handsome and expressive: at the insinuation of Harland, a
momentary spark of passion suffused his cheek; but, looking at his
dress, he suppressed a sigh, and with an air of injured dignity turned
to the window. The captain regarded George with a sternness which never
failed to check him, and, again addressing St. Ledger, asked if he
wished to engage in the sea-faring life?

St. Ledger bowed--

"If such be your wish or intention, young man," continued the Captain,
"you are welcome to remain here; and depend on my friendship--as you
deserve!"

"As he deserves!" repeated George, with contemptuous haughtiness. "Were
he to have his deserts, sir, I believe your friendship would not be put
to the test."

"Forbear! Lieutenant," returned the Captain, "know your distance, young
man, or take my word, my friendship to your father shall not shield you
from your deserts!"

He waved his hand for St. Ledger to follow him, and left the cabin.
Frederick likewise retired, leaving the Lieutenant highly incensed at
the reproof he had received, and the favourable reception given to the
indigent St. Ledger.

Descended from an ancient and wealthy family--an only child--Harland had
early been taught to regard merit only in proportion to the birth of the
individual; and whilst the actions of his ancestors were recited to
raise an emulation in his bosom, they implanted a pride, the partial
fondness of his parents but too much tended to increase. Thus regarding
himself as superior to the generality of mankind, he expected an
observance and obedience few were willing to pay. The Captain's
profession of friendship to St. Ledger, after he had so openly avowed
his disapprobation of that youth, he looked on as an insult offered to
himself, and as such determined to show his resentment by treating him
with every mark of contempt in his power. This behaviour, however,
failed in the desired effect; and, instead of degrading St. Ledger, was
the means of gaining him the notice and protection of the other
officers. By the austerity of his manners, Harland had long since
rendered himself the object of their dislike; the injustice of his
behaviour was therefore exaggerated in their opinion, and, independently
of the Captain's avowed partiality, or the interesting manners of the
young adventurer, inclined them to regard him with sentiments of
commiseration and friendship.

Already had St. Ledger been six weeks on board, during which time the
Captain had repeatedly, but vainly, urged him to declare who he was;
neither could he be induced to appear when any strangers visited that
gentleman; when one day, being importuned by Frederick to accompany them
to the house of a friend, he hesitatingly acknowledged it was not safe
for him to be seen.

"Not safe, St. Ledger?" repeated the Captain. "Of what action can you
have been guilty, that like a midnight assassin, you should thus dread
the observation of civilized society?"

"None, Captain," answered St. Ledger firmly. "But the criminal is not
the only one who has cause for fear. He who meets the hand of the
assassin is in equal danger as he who gives the blow."

"Well, St. Ledger," returned the Captain, "I yield to your reasons,
whatever they may be. I entertain too good an opinion of you to think
you guilty of any crime which could render you undeserving of the
protection I have afforded. When you have known me longer, you may
perhaps find me more worthy of your confidence."

St. Ledger felt relieved by their departure, though hurt at the reproach
he thought the Captain's last words implied.

For that gentleman, he sunk into a reverie as soon as he was seated in
the barge; which Frederick, whose imagination was equally employed in
conjectures respecting St. Ledger, never thought of interrupting; and on
being landed they silently pursued their way till they arrived at the
quay, when Frederick suddenly exclaimed--"I cannot form an idea who, or
what St. Ledger is. Above the generality of mankind I must think him."

"I have indeed," said the Captain, "rarely seen his equal, and would
freely give a hundred guineas to know who he is, or his reason for
wishing to be concealed. If he would intrust me with the secret, it
might perhaps be in my power to prove a greater friend to him than I am
at present."

The concluding sentence brought them to the place of their destination.
On being announced, a gentleman, who was seated with their invitor,
hastily rose, and, eagerly surveying the Captain, exclaimed--

"Does my memory deceive me; or is it my friend Crawton I have again the
pleasure of beholding?"

"I was once known by that name," answered the Captain, with emotion;
"but at present bear that of Howard."

"Tell me," said the other, with quickness, "were you ever acquainted
with one Talton, of Brighthelmstone?"

"Brighthelmstone!--Talton!" repeated the Captain, taking his
hand--"Surely it is.--It is my old friend Talton himself! Yet scarcely
can I credit the existence of one I thought long since numbered with the
dead."

"I wonder not at your entertaining the idea," said Mr. Talton. "The
years that have intervened since last we beheld each other, and a
variety of circumstances, might justly give rise to such a
supposition."

The pleasure experienced by the Captain at thus meeting a man whose
friendship had once constituted a considerable portion of his happiness,
diffused itself to the bosoms of all, and some time elapsed ere he
thought of asking an explanation of the occurrences by which he had been
induced to believe the death of his friend.

On Frederick and their entertainer likewise expressing a wish to hear
his relation, Mr. Talton readily consented to gratify their curiosity.

"Though I would not, my friends," he continued, "have you expect to hear
any thing extraordinary in my history, as there is not any circumstance
in the whole, but what daily and hourly happens to hundreds of my
fellow-beings, or that can render it interesting to any but the ear of
friendship.

"I believe, Howard, I need not recapitulate the circumstances which
eighteen years since induced me to leave England; as I doubt not you
well remember the death of my guardian, and the villany of my steward
in Barbadoes, who, on that event, endeavoured to defraud me of the
property I inherited from my mother.

"Our voyage was tempestuous and tedious; and on landing at Barbadoes, I
found Johnson regarded as the legal possessor of my lands. I carried
sufficient proofs of my identity and the validity of my claim; but,
irritated to the highest degree, declined an application to law as too
tedious in its redress, and determined personally to assert and enforce
my right.

"I accordingly went, accompanied by some friends, who had in vain
endeavoured to dissuade me from such a procedure, and was admitted into
the presence of Johnson, whom I accused with all the vehemence of
ungoverned rage, and declared my intention of maintaining possession
from that period. He heard me with an affectation of surprise; and
then, with the greatest effrontery, said--'You the son of the late
honourable Alric Talton, and the owner of these plantations! This
impudence exceeds all I ever witnessed! No, sir, the son of my late
master is too well known to me to admit of this imposition. From him I
purchased these possessions, and from him, from you, and all the world,
I will now withhold them.'

"Driven nearly to madness by this impudent assertion, I still insisted
on the justness of my claim, and menaced him with the utmost severity of
the law; whilst he in return pretended to treat me as an impostor, and
threatened to have me punished accordingly.

"My friends finding the inutility of the attempt, proposed my returning
to Bridgetown, and seeking redress from the Governor. This I told them
they were welcome to do, but I should remain where I was; and, finding
me obstinate to my purpose, they at last set out for town without me.

"As soon as they were gone, Johnson summoned two European servants, and
commanded them to search my pockets; and, whilst my arms were confined
by his order, I had the mortification to see those papers concerning his
stewardship, and which as of most consequence in my cause I carried
about my person, torn to pieces and consumed! Then regarding me with a
sarcastic grin--'As you are determined to remain here, young man, it is
as little as I can do to accommodate you with an apartment; though,
perhaps, it may not prove altogether agreeable to your wishes.'

"He then ordered me to be conducted to a room he named, and which I
afterwards found was used as a place of confinement to those slaves who
failed in their attempts for liberty. My arms were there unbound, and I
was left to the solitary comfort of a bed of reeds. The first violence
of passion subsiding, I perceived the folly of my late behaviour; and,
as I doubted not my friends would effect my liberation, I determined, if
possible, to rectify the errors my rage had occasioned; and I had still
sufficient proofs remaining, I doubted not, to bring Johnson to justice.

"According to my expectations, my friends, the next day, came to
Johnson's, and on being refused any satisfactory intelligence respecting
me, applied to the Governor, who issued an order, in consequence of
which my villanous steward was obliged to release me, or stand indicted
for my murder. A formal process of law was then commenced against him;
the cause finally brought to trial; and, as my witnesses and proofs were
indisputable, the verdict pronounced in my favour. But the crafty
villain effectually screened himself from punishment by the evidence of
his two servants, who positively swore their master had, previously to
my arrival, purchased the plantations of a man who assumed my name; and
that they were witnesses to the deeds, which were accordingly produced.

"The behaviour of Johnson in destroying the papers relative to the
stewardship, and the question--where could he honestly have amassed
money sufficient for the purchase--effectually proved the falsity of
this account: but as I had recovered my right, and could bring no
witnesses of his conduct, I desisted from farther prosecution.

"Johnson, thus cleared from intentional fraud, unquestioned master of
the money he had amassed during his illegal tenure of the plantations,
purchased one adjoining mine, and proved such a troublesome neighbour,
that for five years I had occasion for all my forbearance and
circumspection, to avoid a continual course of law-suits. During that
time my affairs in England had been very little attended to; and as my
overseer was a man on whose integrity I could rely, I determined to pay
a visit to my native country. I accordingly came to England, passed some
months at Bath, and went to Brighthelmstone, for the purpose of visiting
you, to whom I had repeatedly written: but on my arrival there, was
informed no person of the name of Crawton resided in the place; nor
could I gain the least intelligence respecting you.

"Having settled my affairs to my satisfaction, I again returned to
Barbadoes, where I passed ten years more without any thing material
occurring; except that Johnson had the impudence to propose an alliance
between me and his daughter, a girl of sixteen; but the offer was
rejected with the disdain it merited. He soon after died, and I once
more visited England, where some events which have happened, will most
probably induce me to fix my future residence. I went to the continent
about six weeks since, to settle accompts with my correspondents, whence
I yesterday returned; and happy indeed do I deem myself in the discovery
of this afternoon."

A more minute recapitulation of incidents beguiled the time till the
period of the Captain's return on board, when he parted from his friend,
who promised to pass the ensuing day with him.




CHAPTER II.


The cheerfulness which had animated the countenance of the Captain,
deserted him when he quitted the presence of Mr. Talton; a deep
dejection succeeded, and the half-stifled sigh evinced the recollection
of events painful to remembrance. Frederick vainly endeavoured to divert
his attention, but his voice had lost its wonted influence; nor, when
returned on board, was the interesting St. Ledger more successful in
dispelling the saddened cloud from his brow. The Captain regarded him
for some time in mournful silence, then hastily bade him good night,
and retired to his cabin, whence he was summoned in the morning, on the
arrival of Mr. Talton. His pallid countenance sufficiently showed how
ill he had passed the night, nor could his efforts to assume a cheerful
ease succeed.

Mr. Talton beheld the alteration with concern, and took the occasion of
his absence to ask Frederick the reason of it.

"Alas, Sir," replied Frederick, "I cannot resolve your question; my
uncle is frequently--nay generally dejected; but with the cause I am
unacquainted."

"I know," said Mr. Talton, "that early in life he experienced
unhappiness from his family; yet, surely after so many years have
elapsed--Yet it may: the enmity of his brother was too deeply rooted to
yield to time--And shall I own my surprise at finding the son of that
brother on board the Argo? Excuse my curiosity, young gentleman, but are
you here with or without the knowledge and approbation of your father?"

Frederick sighed. "My father, sir, knows and approves of my being here."

"--Are you," said Mr. Talton, after a moment's pause, "acquainted with
the cause of their quarrel!"

"I am not, sir," answered Frederick. "From my earliest remembrance the
unhappy disagreement between my uncle and father has existed: and to
such excess did my father carry his inveteracy, he would not permit even
the name of his brother to be mentioned in his presence: and, except by
name, I scarcely knew such a person existed. My early propensity for the
sea, which my father in vain strove to eradicate, and the haughty
ungenerous disposition of my elder brother, brought me continual anger
and chastisement, till I was nearly fourteen; when I accompanied my
father to a race near Salisbury; and, where my uncle, without knowing
who I was, saved my life, by extricating me from an unruly horse, which
my curiosity to see the course had tempted me to mount. He afterwards
accompanied me to my father, who was beginning coolly to thank him, when
he recalled to mind, his brother in my preserver, and rage, in an
instant, took possession of every faculty. He struck me down, and
severely should I have suffered for the involuntary offence, if my uncle
had not interposed--desiring to speak with him in private. After a
conference of about half an hour, they returned; my father's brow still
exhibited a formidable frown; and, as he entered, I heard him say, 'If
you take him--you take him entirely: nor, after he is once under your
guidance, shall I think myself necessitated to provide for him in the
least respect. I have other children, more deserving my care esteem:
you have none--and, if you like, may adopt him; your dispositions are
exactly similar!'

"My uncle smiled at the latter part of his speech, and asked if I would
go to sea with him? I readily acceded to the offer, and that very
evening bade adieu to a parent, whose harshness rendered him an object
of dread, and repressed every sentiment of filial affection. My uncle
wrote twice to my father; the first letter he answered, saying, he was
glad I behaved to his satisfaction; and since that time, all intercourse
has again ceased. My uncle, at his own expense, equipped me for the sea,
and has ever supplied my wants with unbounded generosity."

At this moment the Captain re-entered.

Mr. Talton beheld with concern his encreasing melancholy, and for some
time strove to divert it; but finding all his efforts ineffectual, he at
last said--

"What, Howard, is the cause of the dejection which oppresses you? That
cloud on your brow is by no means flattering to my present visit, and
but little accords with your professions of friendship, or the honest
pleasure that yesterday enlivened your features. I know you too well to
think it occasioned by any trivial circumstances: what then, my friend,
is the reason?--Your wife, you say, is well."

"Name her not, I entreat," replied the Captain, severely hurt at the
reproach of his friend. "She is, indeed, the source of all my
unhappiness!"

"The source of your unhappiness!" repeated Mr. Talton. "Surely, Howard,
I do not understand you, or your sentiments are strangely altered since
the time I gave the lovely Ellenor Worton to your arms. Then--"

"Oh, Talton," interrupted the Captain, "cease this subject, I conjure
you. Ellenor Worton! My God, what ideas does that name recall! Yes, far
above my life I prized her: but those days are for ever fled! I am
wretched, and she is now a friendless fugitive in a merciless world!"

"What mean you, Howard?" asked Mr. Talton. "There is a mystery in your
words I do not understand."

"Then I will explain them," returned the Captain. "Your friendship, your
honour, I have proved; and when you hear my tale, you will not wonder
why, on beholding the friend of my earlier days, instead of smiles, my
countenance should thus wear the semblance of sorrow and regret."

Frederick would here have retired, as imagining what his uncle had to
impart, he might wish should only reach the knowledge of his friend;
but the Captain bade him resume his seat.--"From my errors," he added,
"you may learn to avoid their attending unhappiness."

Frederick obeyed; and the Captain, addressing Mr. Talton, continued.

"At the commencement of our acquaintance, I believe, I informed you I
was a younger son, brought up to the sea, and deprived of the fortune I
expected, by the marriage of my elder brother. I was, at the period of
that marriage, seventeen. Sir Thomas Gratton, the father of the lady my
brother espoused, refused his consent to their union, unless Arthur's
fortune were made adequate to the one he gave his daughter; and my
father, overcome by the entreaties of my brother, and perhaps dazzled
with the idea of his marrying an heiress with three thousand a year,
complied so far as to resign two-thirds of his estate (which was equal
to that of Sir Thomas) on the day of marriage, with the reversion of the
remainder at his decease.

"Arthur, in return, secretly, but solemnly, promised to present me and
William, our other brother, with ten thousand pounds each, on our coming
of age, or at the death of his father-in-law. William died the ensuing
year, as did Sir Thomas in less than nine months after.

"My brother had hitherto expressed the greatest affection for me: I
stood godfather for my Frederick here, and every thing bore the
appearance of harmony and cordiality; till, being at an assembly at
Lavington, my ill fortune led me, through whim, ridicule, and the gaiety
of youth, to pay particular attentions to a Miss Deborah Tangress, a
maiden lady nearly fifty, noted for every unamiable quality, ugliness,
and riches! Little did I think the folly of that evening would have
created me so many years of misery!

"Pleased with the attentions and compliments she thought serious, and
despising the delicacy requisite in her sex, she sent proposals to my
father, offering to resign herself and fortune to my disposal. I was
laughing at the effects of my evening's mirth, when my brother entered
the room; my father gave him the letter, and, smiling, observed, he
thought Miss Deborah had completed her character.

"'I cannot so readily conceive the occasion of your immoderate laughter,
Edward,' said my brother: 'the offer is advantageous, far beyond what
you have a right to expect; and, instead of ridiculing, I think you
rather ought to accept it with thankfulness.'

"'Accept it with thankfulness!' I repeated. 'What, and chain myself to
such an ugly old----'.

"'As to her being old and ugly,' interrupted my brother, 'it is of very
little consequence. You will recollect, sir, she has an ample fortune,
and you have none!'

"'Not so destitute as that, Arthur,' said my father: 'the fortune he is
entitled to from your hands, though small, will render him so far
independent that he may choose for himself.'

"'Excuse me, sir,' answered my brother, 'I cannot say I think myself
obliged to give Edward a fortune from my own purse, especially when one
so large as that Miss Tangress possesses is offered. If he have any
regard for his own interest, he will accept it, and not look to me for
future supplies. I have nearer ties; my children----.' "But excuse me,
Talton, here is one"--(looking at Frederick, who appeared surprised and
shocked at this account of his father) "too nearly interested to be
pleased with this part of my narrative. Suffice it to say,--the mask was
here thrown off by my brother, and I condemned to poverty! For the
promise given to my father was merely verbal, and without witness,
whilst the possessions of my father, in full confidence of Arthur's
honour, had been secured to him by the strongest ties of the law.

"My father felt the stroke more severely than I did; he wept--and, in
the bitterest anguish, asked pardon of heaven and me, for the step he
had taken, and begged I would reconsider the proposal of Miss Tangress,
before I absolutely rejected it. In all probability, he said, a few
years would terminate her existence; I had no particular attachment to
restrict me; and it would convey ease to his death-bed to know I was not
only independent of my brother, but in a state of equal affluence.

"In the passion of the moment, this last consideration determined me; I
complied--and in less than three weeks became the husband of Miss
Tangress.

"The possession of her fortune, however, could not recompense me for her
haughty wayward disposition. In her domestic arrangements she was
tyrannical and parsimonious, and so truly capricious, that the most
studied attentions to please could not twice succeed in the same
particular. Certain I had not married for love, her rancorous
disposition soon led her to resent, or rather to revenge, my want of
affection. My expenditure became extravagance, my wants superfluous, and
my acquaintance by far too general. As such, by the most pointed slights
and insults, my friends were severally driven from my house; nor was
even my father spared.

"I bore with the temper of my wife till human patience could sustain it
no longer; and one day, after having been severely reproached with the
favour she had conferred in uniting herself to a man not worth a
shilling; I mounted my horse, and crossed the country to
Brighthelmstone.

"The second night after my arrival there, I went to the ball given in
honour of Sir Henry Beechton, where I became acquainted with you, and
first saw the lovely Ellenor.

"To mention my admiration is needless: you are already well acquainted
with it. To my anxious inquiries concerning her, the only intelligence I
gained was--that she was an orphan of small fortune, and under the
protection of the Hon. Mrs. Radnor. Fortune, however, had then lost its
allurements. Ellenor shone with all the graces of a fabled goddess,
which, added to the benignity that beamed in her eyes, and the ineffable
sweetness of her manner, fixed her at once supremely in my heart.
Impelled by love, I pursued the acquaintance; Ellenor owned her regard
for me to her friend; and as neither that lady nor she had the least
suspicion of my being married, (for, on my arrival at Brighthelmstone, I
had taken my mother's name of Crawton, to prevent my wife from tracing
me), my visits were welcomed with the greatest cordiality and friendship
on the part of her protectress, and the sincerest affection by my
Ellenor.

"It was then I fully experienced the wretchedness of my situation, in
being united to Deborah. Reason and honour bade me combat with my
passion, and fly from Ellenor. But in vain; each succeeding interview
discovered new perfections, and by forcing a comparison, added to my
love for her, and detestation for my wife. Hard was the conflict--but
love prevailed: and I strove, by fallacious reasoning, to persuade
myself, that my marriage with Miss Tangress was of no effect, as I was
led into it by passion and revenge; and that an union with Ellenor,
though contrary to the laws of my country, being founded on mutual
affection, would not only be accepted in the eye of heaven, but acceded
to as just, by the unprejudiced part of mankind.

"Meanwhile, I kept the secret buried in my breast. Ellenor, not
mistrusting my account of myself or family, sought not for farther
information than I gave; the banns were published in a village a few
miles from Brighthelmstone, where, with your assistance, my friend, as
father to my Ellenor, we were married!

"Of my happiness, you, Talton, were a witness; and the time flew with
rapidity, till, by accident, I heard my father was dangerously ill; when
filial affection for that best of parents, resumed its sway; and, taking
a tender leave of Ellenor, I arrived at Howard Hall time enough to
receive his last blessing.

"My father left me what his economy had saved since the discovery of my
brother's sentiments; a few personal effects, his picture, with that of
my mother, and her jewels. Inconsiderable as the bequest was, in
comparison to the possessions devolved to Sir Arthur, he disputed my
right to them; but as I prized them, not for their intrinsic value, but
the affection of him who gave them, and, looking on him as the primary
cause of my marrying Deborah, I not only refused to resign them, but
upbraided him with his sordidness on that occasion. This produced a
quarrel which has never been healed: he forswore--disowned me! This
scene was followed by one nearly equal to it with my wife; which adding
to my disgust, I directed my lawyer where to remit my small fortune,
(for as I lived not with Deborah, I disdained all thoughts of hers) and
once more returned to the arms of my Ellenor.

"Months again flew; when our happiness received its first shock by the
sudden death of our invaluable friend Mrs. Radnor; and this was followed
by your departure for the West Indies. Love, however, overcame these
afflictions; my Ellenor became pregnant, and I was in expectation of
soon being hailed by the name of father; when one day, sitting with my
angel, fondly anticipating future felicities, the door was thrown open,
and Deborah, accompanied by my lawyer, rushed into the room!

"To describe the scene which followed, is impossible: even now the
recollection of it nearly maddens me! Deborah acted congenially to the
fury of her character; aspersed my Ellenor, and reviled me with every
opprobrious epithet the wildest passion, heightened by jealousy, could
dictate; nor ceased--till Ellenor, overcome by the disclosure of the
baleful secret, fainted in my arms; then, with the same violence as she
entered, flew out of the room, followed by her companion, vowing to be
revenged, though she expended her fortune in accomplishing it!

"At last my Ellenor recovered: not a single reproach at my conduct
escaped her lips, but her countenance plainly showed the agony of her
mind. Willing to lessen the idea of my guilt, which had been exaggerated
by the frantic Deborah, I recapitulated the circumstances I have now
related, and, with all the eloquence I was master of, pleaded the
affection I entertained for her, as an excuse for the deceit I had
practised. She heard me in silence; a convulsive sob swelled her bosom;
and, on my again urging her forgiveness, she regarded me with a look of
mingled anguish and despair. Tears at last relieved her, and she
requested to be conducted to her chamber; I supported her there, and,
leaving her to the care of her maid, returned to the parlour, my bosom
filled with a sorrow and remorse that have never since deserted it! I
was roused from reflections painful in the extreme, by a message from
Deborah, demanding my presence, with which I was weak enough to comply,
and for an hour and a half sustained the fury of her rage and
reproaches, when, as neither would agree to the proposals of the other,
we again parted. On my return home, I eagerly inquired after Ellenor.
'She is gone, sir!' said the girl, bursting into tears. 'Gone!' I
repeated. 'How--when--where is she gone?' 'That, sir,' she answered, 'I
know not. Soon after you went out, my lady sent Susan for a chaise and
four, which, the moment it arrived, she entered, leaving this letter
for you. Susan put in a few parcels, and followed her mistress; but
where they are gone to, God only knows!'

"I seized the letter; and you may judge of what I felt when I perused
it."

The Captain, with a sigh, drew a case from his bosom, and, taking out
the letter, read as follows:


     "I mean not, Edward, to upbraid you with an action, which, though
     it has involved your Ellenor in misery, was the offspring of
     affection; or, by unavailing complaints, add to the sorrow that
     already fills your bosom. No--rather let me speak peace to your
     mind, and, if possible, soften this, perhaps last, farewell! I
     have sustained the shock! Your real wife--oh, Edward, Edward!--But
     I will be calm.

     "After the discovery of last night, honour, religion, virtue,
     forbid my continuance here. I am the child of misfortune; to stay,
     would make me the child of guilt! Justice likewise demands, that
     whilst your wife exists, you should think of Ellenor no otherwise
     than as a friend; I cannot say--forget me; that would be injustice
     to myself. No, Edward--pure has ever been my affection; and if
     Heaven should release you from your vows, remember the hand, the
     heart of Ellenor, may be demanded. Till then attempt not to
     discover me; the search would be fruitless. Justice demands the
     sacrifice, and it must be made! Yet how can I say--farewell! How
     tear myself from him on whose existence that of Ellenor depends; be
     merciful, Heaven--nor inflict a punishment past my power to
     support! Still let me stay--let me at least see my Edward, and hear
     him speak!--But it must not be. Oh, Edward, the punishment is just!
     You had your secrets, and I had mine!

     "My hand is incapable of performing its office; I would, but cannot
     proceed. Oh, Edward! think of your Ellenor; doubt not my love--my
     constancy: and Heaven yet may make us happy!"


"You had your secrets, and I had mine! O God! what years of anxiety and
painful conjecture, have those words occasioned!

"A stupefying horror at first pervaded my faculties: I sunk into a
chair, and, but for the officious attentions of Mary, should have
experienced a total--happy had it been a lasting insensibility!

"'Where can she be gone?' I faintly exclaimed, when recollection had
regained sufficient power.

"'She cannot be gone far,' sobbed Mary. 'Perhaps, sir, you yet may
overtake her.'

"The idea served effectually to rouse me: I commenced my search, and
soon gained intelligence: a carriage, answerable to that I described,
with a lady and her attendant in it, had been seen on the London road.
To London I immediately directed my course; and at last descried a
carriage, my sanguine hopes led me to think was that containing the sum
of my earthly happiness: I instantly spurred my horse, when, owing to
the badness of the road, or some other cause, he stumbled--fell, and
threw me with violence over his head. I was stunned by the fall, found
by some travellers, and, in a state of insensibility, conveyed to the
nearest inn.

"The hurts I received were not very material; but the agitation of my
mind at being thus prevented from pursuing Ellenor, brought on a fever
which confined me to my apartment for nearly a fortnight. As soon as I
was in a state to travel, I again pursued my way toward London, though
with very little hope, after the time which had elapsed, of discovering
her.

"For weeks after my arrival at the metropolis, I wandered about in the
faint hope fortune might direct my steps to the place where she was
secreted; when, one evening, returning to my lodging, I was surprised by
the appearance of Deborah's equipage, who had likewise been seeking for,
and at last traced me to London. She saw me ere I could enter the
house, when, more than ever detesting the idea of an interview, I
immediately removed to another part of the town.

"The next day I passed as usual in wandering about, and returned in the
evening dejected and fatigued, when, taking up a book belonging to the
hostess, a paper fell from it; it was a sonnet to Hope: but, good
Heavens, think of my astonishment when I found it was the writing of my
Ellenor! At first I discredited the evidence of my senses, till
reiterated examinations convinced me I was not mistaken. I flew to the
mistress of the house, and, in answer to my incoherent inquiries, gained
intelligence, that she had left those apartments but a few days before
I took them; that she had there been delivered of a son, and was then
gone to reside in Caermarthen, her native county; though to what part,
the hostess could not tell. To Caermarthen I determined to go, and
accordingly the next morning commenced my journey; but all my search was
indeed fruitless!

"At last, overcome by fatigue, preyed on by a fever occasioned by my
repeated disappointments, and, to own the truth, not having money to
prosecute my search, having expended that left me by my father, I was
necessitated to retire to my habitation at Brighthelmstone, where
Deborah again obtained information of me, and again laid me under the
lash of her malignant power. Willingly would I have sought relief in a
formal separation; but that she refused with the most contemptuous
disdain, telling me I should never enjoy a portion of her wealth without
her. I would then have resigned all pretensions to her fortune; but she
started into phrensy, vowed she would follow me to the utmost extremity
of the globe, and sooner deprive herself of every comfort in life, than
leave me at liberty to renew an acquaintance with a woman I preferred to
herself. Finding it in vain to gain her accordance to my proposal, I
desisted from the attempt, and again commenced a search after Ellenor;
Deborah, like my evil genius, still following me from place to place,
till wearied, regardless of existence, and as the only means of
escaping from her, I again went to sea. The interest of my friends
gained me promotion; and fortune, by an influx of wealth during
seventeen years, has been willing, as far as her power extends, to make
me amends for the misery she has occasioned me in the loss of Ellenor,
the continued torments I endure from Deborah, and the unkind neglect of
my brother, whom I have seen but once since the death of my father.

"And here, Talton, I must apologize for my neglect to you. Your first
letter, informing me you had regained your property, I received a few
days preceding the discovery of my marriage with Deborah; but the
distraction of my mind at that time prevented me from answering it.
When I had in some degree regained my tranquillity, I wrote; but the
person to whose charge I intrusted my packet, nearly two years after
returned it, with the account that you were either dead, or had left the
island; and as during that time, nor since, I never heard from you, I
was induced to believe the former part of his intelligence.

"The pleasure I yesterday experienced on beholding you, for the time
banished every other reflection; but no sooner did I quit you, than
remembrance, with the keenest powers, revived every former scene, and
added not only to my compunction for my injuries to--, but to my
sorrow, for the irretrievable loss of my beloved Ellenor."




CHAPTER III.


Mr. Talton remained thoughtful some minutes after the Captain had ceased
speaking; then addressing him--"If you were some years younger, Howard,
I should censure you severely for your conduct; but as it is, and in
consideration of the punishment you have already endured, I shall
suspend my lecture! Poor Ellenor! It is strange, Howard, in the course
of so many years you should never have gained any intelligence, nor met
with the least circumstance from which you could judge of her destiny."

"It is strange, Talton. A few weeks back my nephew introduced a youth on
board, whose appearance raised such emotions in my breast as I cannot
attempt to describe. He was the exact resemblance of my Ellenor; his age
too agrees with my son's, if living; but every hope was soon destroyed,
his answers plainly proved he was not her child."

A sigh of regret here burst from the bosom of the Captain; nor could he
refrain an impatient exclamation against the severity of his fate, in
being thus deprived of those he regarded as the blessings of his
existence.

"Though your life, Howard," said Mr. Talton, "has been rather out of the
dull track of common occurrences, yet I would not have you think you
have had more than your share of human ills; of those, believe me, all
have an equal dispensation, and, sooner or later, feel the hand of
adversity! As your morning of life has been clouded, you should, I
think, look forward to a clear evening. You yet may find your Ellenor,
and your son be restored, all your fondest desires could wish. You still
have hope! Many, suffering afflictions, are bereaved of that blessing,
by a fatal certainty of ill, where their happiness depends."

"Certainty of ill--" repeated the Captain--"Ah, Talton, am I not
chained to a woman I detest, deprived of her I idolized, and a son whose
endearments and attentions might have soothed the little sorrows of my
bosom? But you are a bachelor, unrestrained by any ties which can justly
interest the heart, and therefore cannot judge for me."

"Pardon me, my friend," returned Talton. "I speak not from conjecture;
neither am I altogether unacquainted with those anxieties which have
rendered you unhappy; and if you will listen to the tale of the woman I
love, you may, perhaps, be convinced of the justness of my assertion."

The Captain bowed his consent--.

"Miss Holly, Howard, was an only daughter, and brought up by an old
humourist of a father, whose idol she was, whilst she yielded every
sense to his guidance. Many proposals of marriage were offered, but none
thought worthy her acceptance by Mr. Holly, till he accidentally met
with Sir Horace Corbet, an old schoolfellow, and as great an oddity as
himself, with whom he renewed his acquaintance; and an union was
proposed between their children--agreed on, the writings drawn, and the
wedding-day fixed, before the young people were acquainted with the
least circumstance, or their sentiments respecting it, asked! Miss Holly
received the mandate of her father, to regard Mr. Corbet as the husband
he had selected, with the greatest distress; and at last informed him
her affections were irrevocably fixed on another. But vain were her
supplications and tears: the old gentleman was peremptory--and Miss
Holly eloped!

"I shall not attempt to describe the rage of the fathers on this
occasion; six months elapsed without their being able to discover the
place of her retreat; when her aunt, who had for years estranged herself
from all intercourse with the family, arrived at Holly seat, and, with
great formality, acquainted her brother his daughter had taken refuge
with her, and, hoping by that time his resentment had subsided, had
engaged her to attempt a reconciliation. The old gentleman appeared
delighted; a messenger was dispatched for her, and, on her arrival, she
was received with every demonstration of joy and affection! The calm,
however, was deceitful; for the next morning he led her to the chapel,
where Sir Horace and his son were waiting, and there forced her to give
her hand to the latter! Could happiness result from such an union?--Oh
no! What followed might naturally have been expected; indifference on
one side, disgust on the other.

Soon after the nuptials, Mrs. Corbet's aunt died; and, considering her
niece highly injured by the measures which had been pursued, left her
the whole of her fortune, amounting to thirty thousand pounds,
independent of her husband. In less than a twelvemonth Mr. Holly died,
leaving them eight thousand a year: Sir Horace survived his friend but a
few weeks, and Sir Henry succeeded to nearly fifteen thousand a year
more. Their decease, however, which a year before would have been the
means of Lady Corbet's happiness, was then of no avail; the gentleman on
whom her early affections had been placed, on hearing of her marriage,
retired to France, where he literally died of a broken heart.

"Sir Henry now, uncontrolled by parental authority, yielded to the
wildest passions of his heart. The mild dignity of his wife was
disregarded, her beauty insufficient to restrain him from illicit
connexions, and, whilst she was restricted with a parsimonious hand to
her marriage settlement, she had the mortification of beholding immense
property squandered on his worthless mistresses. As a landlord and
master, Sir Henry was certainly beloved; but his character as a husband
degenerated into that of a brutal tyrant.

"Soon after the decease of her father, Lady Corbet was delivered of a
son, and in him (being deprived of all other) she concentrated her
future happiness.

"On my first return from America, as I yesterday informed you, I passed
some months at Bath, where I was introduced to Lady Corbet, and, had she
been single, I should have said, Here Talton rest for ever!--as it was,
nothing passed but what the strictest prude might have witnessed, though
the censuring world imputed actions to me, I was innocent of, even in
intention. Sir Henry was on an excursion with some friends, when I first
became acquainted with his family; on his return, Lady Corbet presented
me to him; he scarcely deigned a perceptible bow, but, throwing himself
into a chair, called for his son, who was then about five years old,
and, without once addressing me, amused himself in talking to, and
answering his infantine questions. I regarded Lady Corbet with a look,
I believe, sufficiently expressive of my surprise at his unpoliteness;
the silent tear trembled in her eye, and, with a sigh which seemed to
say, it was such behaviour as she was used to, she walked to the window.
I had then an opportunity of observing Sir Henry. He was rather small in
his person, his eyes black and penetrating, and his face expressive of
care and discontent.

"He continued playing with the child some time; then, starting up--'Has
your ladyship any commands to the St. Ledger family?' 'None, sir,'
answered Lady Corbet, attempting to speak with unconcern. 'If you have,
you must write to-night; as I depart for London early to-morrow
morning;' then taking the child by the hand, without even bowing to me,
left the room.

"The emotions Lady Corbet had endeavoured to repress, then gained the
ascendancy, and she burst into tears. The subject was delicate; I,
however, ventured to speak, though I could offer little consolation. It
was then she acquainted me with the preceding particulars, and regretted
the obdurate infatuation of her father, who had sacrificed her happiness
for the possession of wealth.

"Sir Henry, as I was afterwards informed, swayed by the report which
was circulated of my attentions to his lady, insisted on her
accompanying him to London; and as I soon after left England, I neither
saw nor heard any thing of her till about a year and a half since; when,
being in London, I one morning went to breakfast with Sir John Dursley,
and was there surprised by the appearance of Lady Corbet. Her dress
instantly informed me she was a widow; yet, as knowing her abhorrence of
Sir Henry, I was perplexed to account for the sorrow depicted in her
countenance.

"The mystery was soon explained. For some time after my departure, Sir
Henry's conduct and behaviour continued invariably the same, when her
happiness received an additional shock, by the total alienation of his
affections from his son, who, as his years and sensibility increased,
severely felt the estrangement, which produced an habitual melancholy.
His amusements were disregarded; company became disagreeable; and the
only pleasure or recreation he seemed to experience, or would take, was
in wandering through the grounds and plantations; where, when the
servants his anxious mother sent in search of him, could not trace his
haunts, he used even to pass the night.

"At last Sir Henry fell a victim to a decline: he still retained his
dislike to his son; but, to make his lady amends, as he termed it, for
the unhappiness he had occasioned her, he left her every part of his
fortune, without restriction, exclusive of the family estate (about
eight thousand a year) which the present Sir Henry comes to the
possession of, on attaining his one-and-twentieth year.

"The attention of Sir Henry to Lady Corbet, on the death of his father,
was the richest balm to her heart, and she looked forward to that
happiness of which she had so many years regretted the deprivation: but
the flattering illusion soon fled! Her son, on a sudden, became
thoughtful, reserved, and mysterious: his answers, when addressed, were
incoherent, his dress disordered, and his whole appearance indicative
of internal wretchedness. He avoided his mother and passed the greatest
part of his time in the apartment where his father died, and where, at
last, he totally secluded himself. Lady Corbet was grieved and alarmed
at this change, which the domestics openly imputed to a mental
derangement; and some papers they found, nearly induced Lady Corbet to
concur in their opinion. They contained unconnected sentences, which
showed a mind ill at ease, if not bereft of reason.

"The mild persuasions and entreaties of his mother, were ineffectual to
draw from him the cause of his dejection, which still increased; and one
night, about six months after the death of his father, he privately
left the hall! This circumstance was soon discovered, and the domestics
dispatched in pursuit of him; but the only intelligence they could gain
of him was from a peasant, who affirmed, that passing by the church
early in the morning, he had seen Sir Henry ascend from the vault where
the remains of the Corbet family were interred: that he was without his
hat, held his handkerchief to his face, and, on leaving the church, ran
with wildness across the fields toward the village. This account was
farther corroborated by the sexton, who attested that Sir Henry had
called him up after midnight, and demanded the keys of the church, which
he did not think himself authorised to refuse.

"This information but served to perplex and raise painful conjectures in
the breast of Lady Corbet: Sir Henry was not to be traced, and it was
not till some time after, she received a letter from Lady Dursley,
informing her of his having been seen in London. To London she
immediately came, where she had been nearly three weeks, when I met her
at Sir John's.

"Lady Corbet recounted these events during breakfast; and we were
endeavouring to give her consolation, in a case I believe we all thought
equally hopeless as mysterious, when the clerk (for my friend is in the
commission for the peace) entered the room, and informed Sir John, a
party of dissolute young men, who, the night before, had committed
several depredations, had been conveyed to the round-house, and were
then waiting at the office. Two of them, he said, who were accused as
the principal offenders, entreated to speak with Sir John previously to
their examination. This, Sir John peremptorily refused; and asking me if
I would accompany him, we proceeded to the office.

"When I beheld the extreme youth of the offenders, (for one was not more
than sixteen, the others somewhat older), I knew not whether to pity or
feel indignant at their depravity. I was, however, recalled from my
reflections by Sir John, earnestly inquiring the names of those who
were reported as the ringleaders? The youth who had principally engaged
my attention, unwillingly pronounced--'Henry Corbet.'

"'Yes,' said Sir John with severity; 'if I mistake not, it is Sir Henry
Corbet!--For the respect I bear your family, young gentleman, I am sorry
to see you here!'

"Sir Henry, for him it really was, shrunk abashed from the penetrating
eyes of Sir John, who now proceeded to inquire into the nature of the
offence.

"The constables reported, that they had the preceding night been
alarmed by the cry of murder, accompanied by their nightly signal for
assistance; that on hastening to the spot whence the alarm had been
given, they had discovered one of their fraternity on the ground; Sir
Henry had then hold of his throat--another who had a bludgeon in his
hand, with which it appeared the watchman had been assaulted, had
likewise hold of one arm. Several others, on the approach of the watch,
fled; and those who remained, after an obstinate resistance, had been
secured.

"Sir Henry denied the charge. He declared that, so far from assaulting,
he and his companions had, on the cry of murder, gone to the rescue of
the watchman; that his friend, St. Ledger, had wrested the bludgeon
from one of the assailants, and at the moment the other watch came up,
was assisting him to raise the man from the ground, for which purpose
he, Sir Henry, had passed his hand behind his neck; that, without making
the least inquiry, they had attacked his companions, who acted only on
the defensive.

"With these particulars, he said, he wished to have privately acquainted
Sir John, without exposing himself or friends to the ignorant and
undeserved accusation of the watchmen.

"Sir John checked the vivacity of the youthful pleader; but as the man
who had been assaulted did not appear, and the constables could not
prove the defence to be false, he, after reprimanding them for exposing
themselves to such night adventures, set them all at liberty, except Sir
Henry, whom he desired to attend him into another room.

"Sir Henry readily obeyed, and there, with greater humility than I had
expected from his late spirited behaviour, apologized for the manner in
which he had been brought before him.

"Sir John admitted his excuse, and asked the occasion of his being in
London? Sir Henry's face became suffused with a blush of the deepest
dye, as he replied, he was on a visit at an old friend's of his father.

"'Your father,' said Sir John, 'I had not the pleasure of knowing. Your
mother I sincerely respect, and as I honour myself with the title of her
friend, I must insist on your passing the remainder of the day with me.'

"Sir Henry instantly assented, and continued with me, till Sir John had
finished the business of the morning.

"Pleased with the opportunity, I engaged my young companion on a variety
of subjects, and, though prepossessed against him by the account of his
behaviour to his mother, I must, in justice, acknowledge I never met
with his superior. His delivery was elegant, his judgment appeared
solid, and his understanding highly cultivated: as I traced in him the
resemblance of his father, I could, however, easily reconcile myself to
the idea, that his mother's character of him was just.

"Sir John being by this time at leisure, we returned to Soho-square. He
had not mentioned the name of Lady Corbet; and now, without any previous
intimation respecting her, conducted him into the room where she was.

"I never beheld surprise more strongly expressed in the countenance of
any one, than in Sir Henry's, on perceiving his mother; it approached
indeed nearly to horror. As for Lady Corbet--a scream of mingled
surprise and delight escaped her lips, as she hastened to clasp him in
her arms; but springing on one side, he eluded her embrace, and
murmuring some inarticulate sounds, attempted to rush out of the room.
In this he was prevented by Sir John, who, catching him by the arm,
said--'Not so fast, young gentleman. Your mother has suffered too much
unhappiness by your first elopement: I shall not so easily permit you to
quit her a second time. Justice has delivered you into my hands, and I
resign you to her. Recollect, as your mother and sole guardian, she has
an unlimited authority to control your actions?'

"Sir Henry answered, but with a groan, and clasping his hands on his
forehead, seemed for some moments to struggle with contending passions;
then hastily asked what was required of him?

"'Not wilfully to destroy the peace of your mother!' replied Sir John,
pointing to Lady Corbet, who had sunk nearly lifeless on a sofa.

"The sight appeared to rouse Sir Henry. He flew to her, and, by the
tenderest appellations, endeavoured to recall her senses. Recollection
soon returned, when, clasping his hand--

"'Oh, Harry!' she cried, 'I needed not this last instance of your
indifference to show how little claim I had to your regard. The ties to
a mother with you are now forgotten; it once was otherwise: but Corbet
will follow the steps of his father!'

"Sir Henry regarded her wildly--'My father, Lady Corbet!----' he
stopped, his lip trembled, and quitting her, he paced the room with
agitated steps. Lady Corbet burst into tears--.

"'Harry, do not, I entreat you, torture me with this behaviour, I have
not merited it. To you I have looked for that consolation and support
which, as a widow and a mother, I had a right to expect. How it has been
rendered, I need not say. Silence and mystery have been the return to
my solicitude--your desertion in the hour of sorrow, the reward of my
tenderness!'

"Sobs impeded her utterance--she could not proceed; but Sir John, with
great strength of reasoning, endeavoured to convince Sir Henry, how
wrong his conduct had been, and to persuade him to act consistently with
the duty he owed his mother, and to his own character, in the eyes of
the world. The young gentleman listened to him some time in silence; a
sigh only now and then swelled his bosom. At last, on Sir John urging
him to return to Wales, with his mother, he looked earnestly in his
face, and with a tone of voice highly impressive, pronounced the simple
denial--'I cannot, Sir John, return to the seat of my forefathers!'

"'No!' said Sir John. 'Whither then would you go?'

"Sir Henry waved his hand--. 'The world is before me!'

"I had been, during this time, endeavouring to soothe Lady Corbet; but
on hearing the replies of her son, she again hastened to him, threw her
arm round his neck, and, leaning her head on his shoulder, wept in
silence. Sir Henry gently disengaged himself, and reconducting her to
the sofa, seated himself by her.

"'Why, my mother,' he said, 'do you wish my return to Corbet Hall? Do
not, I conjure you, thus wantonly seek to plunge me into greater
unhappiness. Of my wretchedness you have been a witness: of what I have
suffered in my mind, you can form no idea! To me, the spot where my
father expired is a place of horror--of distraction! to which, if
confined, neither my head nor my heart can long sustain me in
existence!'

"Sir John listened to this address with some surprise; then, shaking his
head at me, pointed his finger to his forehead, as implying he thought
the young wanderer impaired in his intellects.

"Lady Corbet, whose emotions had at first hurried her into the little
indignant reproof I have related, with tenderness replied--she had
indeed, with concern, beheld his dejection before he quitted the hall;
but if any thing there had disgusted, or been the means of rendering him
unhappy, she would readily consent to reside at Holly seat, or any other
of her estates he chose to name, provided he would return to her
protection.

"To this Sir Henry did not deign to return an answer, but, folding his
arms, sat with his brow contracted, and his eyes fixed on the floor,
deaf alike to the solicitations of his mother and the chidings of Sir
John; nor was it till after we were joined by Lady Dursley, that he
yielded an unwilling assent to our united entreaties.

"Lady Corbet's satisfaction at thus regaining her fugitive, expressed
itself more in her countenance than her words: Sir Henry's was
overspread with gloom; he scarcely spoke, but in the evening wrote a
farewell letter to his friend St. Ledger, and early the next morning
attended his mother from the metropolis.

"You will not, perhaps, Howard, wonder that the admiration I formerly
evinced for Lady Corbet, should give rise to more tender sentiments, on
finding her released from her vows, and at liberty to select a partner
better calculated to ensure her happiness, than the one her father had
chosen. I accordingly followed her to Wales, and sought the earliest
opportunity to avow the state of my heart. She answered my declaration
with a frankness which endeared her still more to me, though
discouraging to my addresses. She never, she acknowledged, entertained
but one idea of affection, and that had long since been blighted and
destroyed: the happiness of her son was the only thing in which she then
looked forward for her own. As a lover she could not receive me, but, as
a friend, I should ever be welcomed to the hall.

"As a friend then I have visited, and am not without hopes of one day
obtaining her hand. The assistance I have been able to render her in the
disposal of her property, has imperceptibly worn away the reserve of our
earlier acquaintance; and as I have purchased a considerable estate
adjoining Sir Henry's, I have every opportunity of increasing the esteem
of this valuable woman. Sir Henry I have rarely beheld; his reserve to
me has ever been in the extreme, and baffled all my endeavours to gain
his friendship or confidence.

"On their return from London, Lady Corbet endeavoured to develope the
cause of his conduct, but in vain. Sir Henry became again the prey of
mystery and melancholy, till the arrival of some gypsies in those
parts; with them he had several times been seen to converse, and,
notwithstanding the vigilance of his mother, who, suspecting his
intention, had appointed several of the domestics to watch him, he
again, about two months since, eloped, and as it was supposed, with
those itinerant outcasts!

"Lady Corbet's grief, on this second elopement of her son, was calm, but
deeper than on the former occasion; all her attempts to discover him
proved ineffectual, and, as a last resource, she determined on going to
London to the young St. Ledger, who being the bosom friend of Sir Henry,
she thought might perhaps be acquainted with his proceedings. As I was
likewise going to London, I accompanied Lady Corbet, and, at her
request, went with her to St. Ledger's: but that family was in equal
confusion--young St. Ledger had likewise absconded!

"At that time I was obliged to leave England, therefore am ignorant how
their search after the fugitives has ended. This, however, Howard, I
think you must acknowledge, that Lady Corbet has far greater cause for
unhappiness than yourself. You still may indulge the hope of again
seeing your Ellenor--a fatal certainty assures her, she is deprived of
the man she loved for ever! You never knew your son; and though you may
regret the deprivation of those attentions and endearments filial
affection bestows; yet you, like her, never experienced the bitter pang
of having those blessings changed to unkindness and neglect!"




CHAPTER IV.


The Captain sighed--thanked Talton for his admonition--"which, if it do
not carry conviction to my reason," he continued, "has at least given a
clue to my ideas on another subject, and may perhaps be the means of
gaining you intelligence concerning the son of Lady Corbet. Young St.
Ledger, if I mistake not, is now on board, and I doubt not will give you
any information in his power."

Mr. Talton expressed his surprise, and earnestly entreated to see him.
St. Ledger was accordingly summoned.

On his entering the cabin, the surprise in Mr. Talton's countenance
increased to the highest degree.

"Sir Henry Corbet!" he exclaimed--starting from his seat, "Good God!
what is the meaning of this?"

The fictitious St. Ledger appeared equally amazed at the sight of Mr.
Talton, whose name he faintly articulated, and, staggering a few paces,
sunk on a chair! Mr. Talton soon recollected himself, and going to
him--

"Little did I think, Sir Henry, of seeing you on board the Argo;
however, as fortune has given me the opportunity, excuse me if I
endeavour to convince you of the impropriety--the cruelty I must term
it, of your conduct! The friendship your worthy mother honours me with,
authorises me in thus speaking, independently of the duty I feel
incumbent on myself, as a man whose years and experience claim the
privilege of dictating to unwary youth. Beside rendering the declining
days of your mother unhappy, you do not recollect the idea you are
implanting in the minds of the world! In the enjoyment of every blessing
affluence could obtain--every wish gratified--what could be the reason
of your clandestine procedure? This is not the age of romance, Sir
Henry! Your conduct, then, can claim only the excuse of lunacy!--a
charge which, if authorised by a continuance of your mysterious
behaviour, may, in the end, deprive you of those possessions you now
appear to slight and contemn! For your own sake, I conjure you, stop ere
it be too late. I shall shortly return to London; go with me, and
restore the peace of your mother, whose early days, you are well
convinced, were too much embittered by your father, to need an
additional pang from his son!"

"He shall return," said the Captain; "at least he shall not remain with
me! As St. Ledger, the victim of misfortune, I received him; as such,
Sir Henry, you should ever have been welcome to my purse, my interest,
and protection! As Sir Henry Corbet, the regard due to my own name
obliges me to insist on your returning to your friends!"

Sir Henry's countenance underwent various changes during the speech of
Mr. Talton: but the Captain's positive renunciation awakened every
painful sensation. He precipitately rose, and seizing his hand--"Give
not your judgment too hastily, Sir; nor deprive me of your protection
before you are certain I am in reality undeserving of it!" Then turning
to Mr. Talton, with a modest spirit that glowed on his cheek--

"I am well aware, Mr. Talton, of the censure to which I expose myself in
the opinions of the world; but as the world cannot give me happiness,
neither shall it altogether bias my conduct! You, sir, have questioned
me with freedom, and now excuse me if I answer you in the same style.
Your friendship for my mother, I am well assured, will induce you to
acquaint her with this rencounter: I do not wish it to be concealed. Of
my regard--my love, she is well convinced; and the name of mother will
never let the force of those ties diminish; but tell her, till
authorised by the will of my father, no power on earth shall induce me
to return! Ask me not--why, Mr. Talton. There is a reason, to me a
dreadful one! one--which drove me from my home, an outcast--a wretched
mysterious wanderer!"

"Romance! Sir Henry," exclaimed Mr. Talton. "Your conduct has been
mysterious, but you need not be a wanderer. Return to your mother--."

"Mr. Talton," interrupted Sir Henry solemnly, "urge me not! I am neither
so ignorant nor weak, as to be influenced by a childish romance. I again
repeat--there is a cause! If the sacrifice of my life could secure my
mother's happiness, freely would I resign it: but I must not--dare not
see her! My wish is to remain with Captain Howard."

"At present, Sir Henry," said the Captain, "I think it more eligible
for you to be under the immediate care of the guardian appointed by your
father."

"Be you my guardian," said Sir Henry, again eagerly clasping his hand.
"My heart acknowledged you as such, the first moment I beheld you; when,
not knowing you were the Captain Howard whom I sought, I told you my
name was St. Ledger. Can you forgive the falsehood? When informed who
you were, a false shame withheld me from retracting the assertion,
especially as you had given that protection, as Sir Henry Corbet I
should have entreated! Under that protection let me still remain! It is
a child of sorrow, Captain Howard," he continued, sinking on his knee,
"begs--conjures you not to desert--not to drive him again an outcast on
the world!"

The Captain was affected--but an expressive look from Mr. Talton,
repelled each sentiment of commiseration, and in an instant decided the
cause of the supplicating Sir Henry. Addressing him with a coldness ill
according with the generosity of his disposition--

"I am almost induced, Sir Henry, for your sake, to wish this discovery
had not happened: as some particulars recited respecting you, by Mr.
Talton, must prevent my proving the friend you wish, I certainly cannot
oblige you to return to your mother--but here you cannot be till you
have previously obtained her approbation."

"Recited respecting me, by Mr. Talton!" repeated Sir Henry, rising
indignantly. "It is well, Captain Howard!" He was leaving the cabin,
but, turning at the door, regarded the Captain with a look expressive of
anguish and disappointment: the tear trembled in his eye--he
faltered--"When the child of Ellenor Worton needed protection, my father
did not refuse it! Edward--Ellenor!"

He laid his hand on his breast,--burst into tears--and rushed in an
instant from their sight.

Surprise, approaching to agony, for a moment bereft the Captain of
utterance; but, recovering, he exclaimed--

"He named my Ellenor and her child! Fly, Frederick, and bring him back.
Oh God! Could he give me information of them--!"

"Be calm, Howard," said Mr. Talton. "Sir Henry, take my word, knows not
of your Ellenor."

"Why then did he name her?" asked the Captain, with quickness.

"That, I cannot say:" answered Mr. Talton: "but, so well acquainted as I
am with every concern of the late and present Sir Henry, the occurrence
he insinuates, could not possibly have escaped my knowledge."

At that moment Frederick re-entered with a letter for his uncle, which
Sir Henry had desired one of the men to deliver.

"It is from Ellenor!" said the Captain, attempting with a trembling
hand, but in vain, to open it. "Take it--read it, Frederick," he
continued; "I am so agitated I can scarcely support myself!"

Frederick obeyed, and read as follows:--

     "After seventeen years silence, Ellenor Worton again addresses her
     beloved Edward--addresses him whose idea has ever lived in her
     heart; nor fears the world should tax her with indelicacy. It is
     for a child of sorrow she writes! It is Ellenor sues--nor will
     Edward refuse her boon!

     "For reasons which I cannot explain, Sir Henry Corbet, the bearer
     of this letter, is necessitated to withdraw from the guardianship
     of his mother. His father sheltered your Ellenor and her child in
     the hour of keen adversity. He has equally been our preserver! To
     him I am indebted for the blessings I enjoy--to him, your son (Oh
     Edward, can you forgive my hitherto concealing him from your
     knowledge?) is beholden for a competency! Will my Edward repay the
     obligation, by affording him an asylum? From him you may learn what
     has hitherto befallen me; but attempt not my retreat, it must yet
     be sacred!

     "Seek not to know more of his history than he freely communicates:
     and love him, my Edward, for he is worthy of your richest regard.
     You must hereafter clear the mysteries in which he is
     involved--from him it is, you must receive your son, and--Ellenor."

"But he has denied your boon, my Ellenor!" said the Captain.
"Shame--shame to him for it! Yet it is not too late: seek Sir Henry
immediately: my life were little in recompence for friendship shown to
my Ellenor!"

Sir Henry, however, was gone!--The moment he left the letter, he sprang
into a boat which was putting off for the shore; nor with the strictest
search and inquiry could they trace the way he had taken. For three days
the Captain experienced the torture of suspense, when he received
intelligence, that the corpse of a youth, answering the description of
Sir Henry, had been washed on shore about two miles from Lowestoff.
Alarmed by this account, he went to the cottage where it had been
conveyed, accompanied by his nephew and Mr. Talton; and where their
fears were fully confirmed, by the people producing the clothes, and a
watch the Captain had himself presented to the unfortunate Sir Henry:
who, they informed him, had that morning been interred.

A tear fell on the cheek of the Captain as he resigned the hope so
lately raised, of hearing of--and seeing his Ellenor; accompanied by one
for the unhappy fate of his favourite St. Ledger: nor did the severity
of Mr. Talton refuse the tribute of a sigh: the faults of Sir Henry sunk
beneath the sod which encircled him, and left to his remembrance only
the youth he regarded for the sake of his mother.

With his mind deeply depressed, the Captain returned on board; long had
he experienced unhappiness, but the events of the last week had struck
the shaft still deeper in his heart; nor could the friendship of Mr.
Talton, or the affection of Frederick, preserve him from a corroding
melancholy.

The death of Sir Henry, as St. Ledger, was universally regretted; even
the obdurate Harland, for a moment, forgot his enmity, and expressed a
sentiment of pity; whilst the generous Frederick, who had regarded him
with fraternal friendship, paid that tribute to his memory his merits
demanded; and whilst he dwelt with praises on the name of his friend,
the faltering accent and half-suppressed sigh evinced the sincerity of
his grief for his loss.

Mr. Talton finding the impracticability of his endeavours to alleviate
the sorrow of the Captain, took his leave, and set out for London, to
acquaint Lady Corbet with the death of her son: as, however disagreeable
the task, he rather chose to inform her himself, than hazard an abrupt
disclosure from an uninterested person, or even by epistolary
communication.

The Captain felt relieved at his departure, as he wished to visit the
grave of Sir Henry, but was unwilling to betray the weakness of his
heart, even to his friend. The ensuing morning, therefore, he went on
shore, and, unattended, pursued his way to the church-yard; where a
simple flag of fragrant turf marked the spot where the remains of the
unfortunate youth were laid.

"Humble indeed is thy bed of rest, my poor St. Ledger," he exclaimed:
"by far too humble for the virtues which I am certain were the real
possessors of thy breast!--In thee my Ellenor has lost the friend she
too, perhaps, fondly hoped, would one day have restored her to the arms
of her Edward. With thee rested the knowledge of her retreat; and with
thee--it may have perished!"

The idea was too much: he sank on his knee by the grave--to Heaven his
heart was open.

"Oh God!" he cried, "immutable are thy decrees, nor can the proudest
knowledge of man explore the mystery of thy ways! Greatly against thee
have I offended, and just is the punishment thou hast inflicted: yet
still let mercy blend with thy power, nor crush the head thou hast
deigned to rear from the dust! Mine was the guilt; on me let thy
vengeance fall: but spare my Ellenor the anguish which swells my heart;
and if thy justice prohibit more, let me at least prove (however late
the date) a friend to her I deceived, a parent to the offspring of our
love!"

He bowed his head on his knee, and for some minutes continued in mental
supplication; till a sigh, responsive to that which burst from his own
bosom, aroused him, and, on raising his head, he beheld his nephew
within a few paces of the grave.

"The same reason, my dear uncle," said Frederick, advancing, "I find,
has separately brought us to this spot, that of taking a last farewell
of the ashes of our worthy young friend, before we bid adieu to this
part of England."

"Such was my intention," answered the Captain, "though remembrance at
the moment has hurried me into greater weakness."

"Regret it not," said Frederick, affectionately taking his hand. "Sir
Henry was deserving of the tear you have shed!--Peace to his
spirit!--Nor need we doubt it: the God to whom he is gone, will condemn
or acquit us according to the rectitude of our hearts, not the frailties
of our words or actions."

"That reflection may conduce more toward restoring peace to my bosom,"
said the Captain, "than all the sophisms of philosophy!

"But come, Frederick, you have witnessed my weakness, let me retire from
this spot, or I may relapse."

He took the proffered arm of Frederick, and, giving a last look at the
grave, dejectedly retraced his steps from the church-yard.

A few days after, he received his expected orders to sail for Weymouth,
previously to his convoying a fleet of Indiamen to the coast of China.

A sigh swelled his bosom as he passed the cliffs of Brighthelmstone, and
beheld the spot where he had once resided with his Ellenor, now lost to
him, he feared, for ever. Remembrance, with keener powers, recalled her
perfections; the sweetness of her manners, her chaste affection; each
look, each tender endearment, dwelt on his memory, and was cherished in
his heart as all that remained to him of her whom he loved. The idea of
Mrs. Howard involuntarily obtruded--

"Weak man!" he softly sighed, "ever to listen to the futile reasonings
of resentment! Had I not yielded to thee, Ellenor might honourably have
been mine; her arms my haven, her smiles the reward of my toils and
anxieties! But now--no welcome ever greets my arrival to my native
shore, no offspring bless my return; Ellenor and her son are lost to me;
and he who only could have restored them, has resigned his being to the
God who gave it!"

Frederick, with concern, observed the increasing melancholy of his
uncle, and his anxiety on that account was considerably augmented by
the arrival of Mrs. Howard! That lady, whose hatred to the Captain
increased with her years, no sooner gained intelligence of his being at
Weymouth, than she hastened there, well knowing her presence was a far
greater punishment to him than any the law could have inflicted; and as
such, it proved more gratifying to her revenge than any it could afford!
The Captain bore her wayward humour with apparent composure; yet it
preyed on his heart, and, by forcing a comparison with the happy period
he had passed with Ellenor, rendered each moment as secretly unhappy as
the rancour of his wife could wish.

From this disagreeable situation he was relieved by a visit from Mr.
Talton, who, on beholding Mrs. Howard, no longer wondered at the
measures his friend had formerly pursued.

"Surely, Howard," he cried, "fortune has selected thee from the rest of
mankind, as an object on whom to display the worst of her capricious
humours. My God! what a contrast to the gentle Ellenor! I can now,
Howard, more sincerely feel for your loss of her, from that I am afraid
I shall soon experience myself.

"I informed you, when at Yarmouth, I had left Lady Corbet with the St.
Ledger family, who were soon relieved from their apprehensions on their
son's account, by his return from an hymeneal expedition with a young
lady, whom they, from a family pique, had objected to his marrying;
their joy, however, at his return, obliterated every unfavourable
sentiment, and they received the wife of his choice with every
demonstration of affection.--Of his friend, Sir Henry, he could not give
the least intelligence.

"On my arrival in London, I hastened to St. Ledger's; but I cannot
attempt to describe the agonies of Lady Corbet at the intelligence I
brought. It appeared, indeed, nearly to shake her reason, and make her
regard the relater of her son's death, as the cause of it. She instantly
retired to Wales, whither I likewise followed, but could not obtain the
favour of an interview. She secluded herself from company, nor admitted
the presence of any one but her own servant. Thus she continued nearly a
fortnight, when a report was raised, that Sir Henry had been seen in the
village; and the next morning I received a message from Corbet Hall,
entreating my immediate presence.

"Pale--wild and breathless--the wretched mother, on my entrance, started
from her seat--'My Henry, my son!' she exclaimed, wringing her hands,
'Oh, give me back the darling of my widowed heart! It is his mother's
bosom only he has wrung with anguish; he never injured thee! Why then
say he is dead, why tear him from my sight? Dead!' she repeated, with a
scream. 'Oh no; it was but last night he blessed my sight. Even now his
accents hang on my ear, as he told me that he lived!'

"Thus she raved--and it was a considerable time before I could soothe
her to any degree of composure. When I had in some measure succeeded, I
dispatched an attendant to the village, to inquire into the particulars
of this strange story, and, if he could possibly discover those who were
said to have seen Sir Henry, to bring them to the Hall. He soon returned
with an old man, who affirmed he had seen Sir Henry, or his spectre,
pass down the church hill the preceding evening; that although
frightened, as Sir Henry was said to be dead, he had retained resolution
to follow him till he arrived at the village; but what became of him
then, he could not say, as he suddenly lost sight of him.

"This account was delivered with such hesitation, I should have
condemned the whole as the effect of intoxication, had not the wretched
mother again declared she had seen her son! The repetition recalled her
frenzy, and for some time baffled my endeavours to calm her
perturbation, by assurances, if her son in reality lived, he must soon
be discovered, in which case I would use every endeavour to restore him
to her.

"Lady Corbet has recovered from her derangement, though I do not think
she ever will from the shock occasioned by the loss of her son. She is
now at Bath for the benefit of the waters: but as my presence appears to
recall the fate of Sir Henry more forcibly to her mind, I have
determined to absent myself till time shall have mitigated her sorrow. I
cannot, however, experience ease in my present state, and must therefore
seek it in a change of objects. What say you, Howard, to an excursion
for a few weeks? Fortune, perhaps, may grant us intelligence of your
Ellenor."

As his presence was not essentially necessary on board, the Captain
readily acceded to the proposal, and a few days after they set out for
Caermarthen, accompanied by Frederick.

Fortune, however, favoured not their hopes; and, after three weeks spent
in fruitless inquiries, they once more directed their course toward
Dorsetshire.




CHAPTER V.


Already had they reached a village near Llandaff, where they proposed to
pass the night, when the fineness of the evening tempted them to enjoy
the beauties they beheld in an extensive landscape. In passing along a
bank from which the ancient walls of the church-yard rose, a groan,
replete with anguish, assailed their ears. The heart of Frederick ever
felt for the distresses of his fellow-creatures, and, on directing his
eye to the spot whence the sound proceeded, a scene presented itself,
which awakened every sentiment of pity.

A man, whose maimed condition implied the service he had rendered his
country, was bending over a grave recently made; his hat was off, and
the sun shed his last beams on a face that showed the wreck of every
manly beauty, whilst his hair, gently waving in the evening breeze,
shaded, and added a softness to the settled grief impressed on his
countenance. A lovely girl lay at his feet, embracing the senseless
turf, then raising herself, wrung her hands, and, clasping that of her
companion sank on the sod in a state of insensibility!

"Ellen, Ellen, my child!" exclaimed the mourner. Frederick could refrain
no longer, but, rushing through the gateway, raised the senseless Ellen
in his arms. Life soon returned, when the Captain (who, with Mr. Talton,
had followed Frederick) took the hand of the unhappy man; the softened
accent of commiseration hung on his lips, but, the mourner murmuring an
entreaty to be spared, withdrew his hand from the friendly grasp, and,
taking the weeping girl by the arm, slowly directed his steps from the
compassionate intruders.

His sorrow was sacred--the Captain felt it; but Frederick, whose
attention was fixed on Ellen, perceiving her scarcely able to support
herself, again hastened to her assistance, and the Captain waving his
hand for his servant to attend him, returned with Mr. Talton to the inn.

The scene they had witnessed was too impressive to be erased from their
minds; they communicated it to their host, who said--"Ah, your Honour,
it was Lieutenant Booyers. Poor gentleman--he is the pity of all who
know him, though I knew him when the sun rose not on a happier man: but
that time is passed."

"And pray, my worthy friend," said the Captain, "to what misfortune does
he owe this unhappy change?"

"'Tis a mournful tale, your Honours," answered the compassionate Jarvis,
"never, I believe, did any man experience more sorrow and misfortune
than he has."

"If my curiosity be not impertinent," said the Captain, "I would thank
you for a few particulars respecting him. I remember a Francis Booyers,
who some years since served, at the time I did, on board the Agamemnon;
and what I have beheld I acknowledge has interested me. You appear to
have known him long."

"From his birth, Sir: and, I believe, there are few circumstances of his
life with which I am unacquainted.

"I was, Sir, in my youth a soldier, and served under the father of the
gentleman you this evening beheld: as brave a man as ever fought beneath
the British standard, and as well beloved by his whole regiment. During
our campaign, I had the good fortune several times to gain his notice,
and in the last engagement where I fought, had the happiness to save his
life! It was by that, indeed, I was disabled; for I had my knee broken,
and received a musket shot in my side; but that I did not regret, for,
wounded as I was, there was not a man left of the regiment but envied me
an action I shall ever regard as my greatest glory: Aye, your Honours,
or who would not have changed situations with me, could he have said,
he had been the means of preserving the gallant Colonel Booyers! I was
attended with as much tenderness as our harassed situation would admit
of: the Colonel himself visited me, and when I recovered, not only
procured me a pension, but took me as an attendant on his person.

"Soon after, we returned to England, where the Colonel involved himself
in ruin, by marrying the daughter of a poor clergyman. For his father,
Lord Booyers, was no sooner informed of what he had done, than he
forbade him his sight, and passed from one act of unkindness to another,
till at last he disinherited him! The Colonel, at first, sought a
reconciliation by means of their common friends; but, finding it of no
effect, resigned all thoughts of the fortune he had expected. His lady
was too amiable to let him regret the step he had taken, and, in her
affection, he found a sufficient recompense for the loss of his
father's.

"In the course of five years she made him the father of three lovely
children, and, during that time, their happiness never received the
least interruption: but our regiment was then again ordered abroad; and
leaving his family in this village, under the protection of Sir James
and Lady Elvyn, the Colonel bade adieu to Wales, and beneath the walls
of Carthagena found a soldier's grave!

"Ah, Sir! five-and-thirty years have not worn away the remembrance of
that day. Still fresh in my memory is the moment I saw him borne in the
arms of the soldiers from the field. Many times had I faced death,
regardless of the carnage which surrounded me--but the sight of my noble
master's corpse made me a coward! The shout of victory, which had been
wont to rouse me to an enthusiastic madness of joy, ceased to vibrate on
my heart; and, though a soldier, I cursed the ravages of war!

"At such a time, but little ceremony can be used:--a shell was hastily
prepared, into which he was laid, and the following evening carried on
the shoulders of his men to the grave they had previously prepared. I
followed--a real mourner! The half-suppressed groans of my comrades were
answered by my own, and each stroke on the drum sank deeper in my heart.
I however marched to the grave: but when I heard the earth rattle on the
coffin of him, whom the day before I had beheld in the pride of health;
surrounded with honour; whose words the oldest officers listened to with
respect, and whose presence could animate and lead his men to the
greatest dangers, then bereft of life, and hurried to the dust--to think
of his wife--his children!--My heart already swelled with anguish to the
utmost, could bear no more--I threw myself in the half-filled grave--in
bitter terms lamented his untimely fate, and franticly accused the hand
of Providence, that had not shielded him from the stroke of death! In
vain my fellow-soldiers endeavoured to recall me to reason, to arouse me
to a sense of apprehended danger from the scouts of the enemy: I was
insensible to all but the remembrance of my master! At last they tore me
from the sacred spot, and hurried me back to the battery, where I was
suffered unmolested to indulge in my grief.

"Some days after, the General sent for me; he praised my honest
affection, as he termed it, for my deceased master, and would have
received me into his own service; but, finding me averse to the
proposal, consented to my bearing the intelligence of the Colonel's
death to my Lady. The property belonging to my master was therefore
entrusted to my care, and I once more returned to Wales; when I found an
account of his death had reached his wife by means of the public papers.
She bore her loss with that meek resignation which marked her character,
and, being then destitute of other support than her pension, determined,
for the sake of her children, to humble herself before their stern
grand-sire, and entreat his pity and protection. But his heart was too
obdurate to yield to the orphan's or widow's tears; and that forgiveness
he had refused to his own child, he vowed never to extend to hers.

"She then applied to his sons, my late master's brothers, the eldest of
whom had a very large fortune, which he inherited from a relation: but
they, like the old gentleman, were deaf to her claim of relief or
protection; their pride of blood, indeed, would not let them stoop to
acknowledge the poor descendants of an obscure country clergyman.

"My Lady returned to Sir James, who, on being informed of her
unsuccessful application, said--'It is not more, Mrs. Booyers, than I
expected from the well-known character of his Lordship and his sons: but
let not this disappointment of your wishes rather than your hopes
depress you. In Lady Elvyn, you have a sincere and affectionate friend:
your hearts are congenial: stay then with her, and let her attentions
and commiseration soothe the sorrows of your widowhood: as for your
children--I will supply the place of the father they have lost.'--And
truly did Sir James keep his word. My Lady remained at the Hall till her
death, which happened about two years after; when she and her little
girl both died of the small-pox.

"Till then I had been retained in the family as her servant: but, a few
days after the funeral, Sir James sent for me into his study--'I know
your worth, Jarvis,' he said, 'and respect the fidelity and attachment
you have ever evinced for my unfortunate friend and his wife; and, as I
believe you wish still to be near their children, I now offer you the
place of butler; in which I doubt not you will acquit yourself as much
to my satisfaction, as in your preceding service you did to your late
master and his widow.'

"I joyfully accepted the offer, and as butler passed the remainder of my
servitude.

"As for the sons of his friend, Sir James reared and educated them at
his own expense, and indeed ever loved them as though they had been his
own: himself had only three daughters, the loveliest girls, I think,
that ever I beheld; but, alas! beauty could not secure their happiness!

"About three years after the decease of Mrs. Booyers, Lady Elvyn died:
the affection of Sir James, however, scarcely allowed them to be
conscious of the loss; his wife, he would say, still existed in her
offspring, and for their sake he never would wed another.

"Well, Sir; early in life, Miss Mary and Hannah, the two elder, showed
an attachment to the young gentlemen, and Sir James declared their want
of an adequate fortune should never be a hindrance to their union with
his children. For the eldest he obtained a commission in the army; the
youngest had long been at sea; and, as my master's interest was great,
the fairest prospect of promotion was before them. An active war then
called them abroad; and well I remember the morning they bade Sir James
and the young ladies farewell. My master took a hand of each, as they
were preparing to step into the carriage which was to convey them away,
and, pressing them to his bosom, said--'Farewell, my dear boys; and
remember, whether good or ill fortune attend your pursuits in life, here
you will ever meet with friends, whose hearts, proudly conscious of your
real worth, will prize you for that alone. Your country now demands your
services: seek then the acquirement of honour, if not of fortune; and at
your return, doubt not my ready assent to the union you so ardently
wish.'

"It was two years after this, before we saw either of the young
gentlemen again. At that time Mr. Francis returned from Barbadoes, and
Captain Booyers arrived from Ireland, accompanied by a son of Sir Horace
Corbet. My old master, who had drooped in their absence, revived at
their return, and for six weeks we had nought but feasts and merriment.
About that time Mr. Corbet disclosed a passion he entertained for Miss
Eliza; and Sir James instantly wrote to Sir Horace, who a few days after
likewise arrived. Ah! all then was truly a scene of happiness!--for Sir
Horace immediately gave his consent to the match, and preparations were
begun for the three marriages. But, alas! Sir, nothing in this me is
certain; for, in the midst of our joy, my good old master was seized
with an apoplectic fit, and a few hours after expired!

"Sir Horace undertook the care of the funeral, and to settle the affairs
of Sir James; but, on searching his papers, no will could be found! The
whole of my master's property, therefore, went, with the title, to a
distant relation; a proud sordid man, who came the day after the
funeral, and, without the least feeling or ceremony, told my young
ladies to provide themselves another habitation; and Sir Horace, who had
pretended the greatest friendship and affection, instantly changed, and
peremptorily told his son, he must cease his addresses to Miss Eliza.
This, Mr. Corbet refused, and declared his resolution to espouse her,
whatever consequence might ensue: but Sir Horace hurried him away to his
seat in Caermarthen; nor was this all, for about a week after, Miss
Eliza received a letter, as they supposed, from Mr. Corbet, entreating
her to meet him at a place appointed; and my young lady, wholly
unsuspicious of treachery, went without attendants (for indeed all the
servants but one female had been dismissed)--and from that time, Sir,
has never been heard of!"

"Not heard off!" repeated the Captain and Mr. Talton, as with one voice.

"No, your Honours," reiterated the landlord, with a deep sigh--"has
never been heard of! My young master and his brother used every means
to discover what was become of her; but, though they entertained not the
least doubt it was Sir Horace who had trepanned her, yet, as they could
not bring any proof, no redress could be obtained.

"My young ladies, being now deprived of fortune, insisted that all
thoughts of marriage should be relinquished till the Captain and his
brother could acquire a competence more adequate to the expenses of a
family; and, finding all endeavours to alter their resolution
ineffectual, my young masters at last yielded an unwilling assent; the
Captain returned to his regiment in Ireland, and Mr. Francis set sail
for somewhere quite the other side of the globe.

"About a year and a half after his departure, Captain Booyers was
promoted to the rank of Major; when Miss Mary yielded to his
solicitations, and they were married. But her happiness was of short
duration: she died in less than a twelvemonth, in giving birth to a
daughter!

"From that time the Major dragged on a wretched existence, till his
regiment was ordered abroad, where, like his father, he lost his life in
the field; leaving the little orphan Ellen to the protection of his
brother and Miss Hannah.

"The Lieutenant went again to sea, in hopes of attaining a higher rank,
or amassing a little fortune; without which, reason forbade his
marrying to involve the woman he loved in greater difficulties: and the
marriage was still and still deferred, in hopes fortune would prove more
favourable; till the ship he served in was put out of commission; and,
after having been many times wounded, and lost an arm, he is now
returned, with no other support or reward than half-pay! Poor Miss
Hannah had been in a decline for a long time; her heart, I know, Sir,
was broken: she lived just to see him, and take a last farewell--and
that was all!"




CHAPTER VI.


The honest innkeeper wiped a tear from his cheek as he concluded, and a
pause of some moments ensued, when the Captain, addressing Mr. Talton,
said--"What a character, Talton, is that of Sir Horace! My own
misfortunes sink in the comparison with these unhappy people's: and I
think you will allow, even Sir Henry is entitled to a portion of your
pity."

"He deserves it, indeed, Sir," said Jarvis. "Soon after I settled in
this inn, he stopped here on his way to my ladies; and I declare I
scarcely knew him, he looked so pale and unhappy. When I told him Miss
Mary was married, he started from his seat in an agony, and, wringing my
hand, said, 'Yes, Jarvis, and I am married! I am married,' he repeated,
'and to one--.' He struck his forehead--walked about in great agitation,
and at last, throwing himself into a chair, covered his face, and sighed
to that degree, my heart ached to hear him. Poor gentleman! I never saw
him after that day. Had his father possessed a heart like my old
master's, they might all have been happy: but many a dark deed has Sir
Horace to answer for, beside those I have related: there were his wife
and daughter disappeared in a very strange manner."

At this moment Frederick entered. Jarvis, being summoned to another part
of the house, made his humble bow, and left the room; and the Captain,
addressing his nephew, asked if he had accompanied the Lieutenant and
Miss Booyers to their habitation?

"I did, my dear Sir," answered Frederick; "and have beheld a scene
equally distressing, I think, as the one you witnessed in the
church-yard. I supported the lovely Ellen to her residence, and would
then have taken my leave, but the Lieutenant, who I afterwards found
was her uncle, entreated me to walk into the house. 'It is the abode of
sorrow,' he added, 'but not of ingratitude; and never will Lieutenant
Booyers turn the compassionate stranger from his gate.'

"I was easily prevailed on to enter, when the Lieutenant, opening the
door of an inner room, presented to my view a lady and a youth in deep
mourning. They did not perceive our entrance. The silent tear was
trickling down the face of the youth; but his mother, for such she
proved, wrung her hands, and, in a voice broken by sobs, exclaimed--'Oh,
my Henry, to what distress has thy death reduced us!' She fell on the
neck of her son, when the lovely Ellen hastening to her, with accents of
the mildest pity, entreated she would be composed.

"'I could, Ellen,' answered the Lady, 'were I the only sufferer; but,
alas! a prison awaits us; and my child--my Edward, what must then become
of you?'

"'Fear not for me, my dear mother,' answered her son, with rising
spirit. 'I will follow the steps of my brave father, and if I fall, I
cannot die more nobly than in the cause of my country!' His voice, his
manners, were all St. Ledger's.--By Heavens, I could have loved him as a
brother!

"His mother pressed him to her bosom, but tears choked her utterance.
The Lieutenant regarded her with a look of commiseration, which seemed,
for the moment, to banish all thoughts of his own affliction. 'Yield not
thus to despondency,' he cried, 'my worthy friend; the God whose power
can calm the turbulence of the storm, and raise the sinking mariner,
will never desert thee or thy offspring.'

"She answered but with her tears, when a beautiful girl, whose
countenance, like the rest, bore marks of the deepest grief, entered,
and in a voice, I thought, of alarm, entreated her assistance in an
adjoining room.

"She instantly complied, and retired, followed by her son and the lovely
Ellen.

"'Child of misfortune,' sighed the Lieutenant, 'may you one day
experience happiness, proportionate to the sorrow you now endure.'

"Then, addressing me, he thanked me, in elegant terms, for the
assistance I had afforded his niece: her name revived the anguish of his
own breast, and, perceiving me interested by what I had beheld, he gave
me the outlines of his life, a life marked, indeed, by misfortune! I
thanked him for the confidence he had reposed in me, and, apologizing
for the freedom of the offer, entreated to know if it were in my power,
or that of my uncle, to render any assistance to the lady I had seen.

"The Lieutenant shook his head.--It was not, he said.--'Pecuniary
distresses,' he continued, 'are but the secondary causes of her
affliction. Early in life she lost a beloved husband, and for many years
experienced the keenest unhappiness: at last Heaven sent a friend, who
promised to redress the injuries she had suffered; but it was not to be:
death has bereaved her of her protector; and for him it is she grieves,
independently of the misery which awaits her.'

"Delicacy forbade my urging any farther, and, unwilling to intrude, I
took a reluctant leave.--But, surely, my dear uncle, something may be
done; theirs is not a common distress: they need a friend, and, had I
the wealth of the universe--"

Frederick was interrupted by his uncle's servant, who rushed into the
room with looks of the wildest delight, exclaiming--"She is found--she
is found, your Honour! My Lady is now in the village!"

The Captain's countenance indicated displeasure. "Am I never to be free
from the persecution of this woman?" he cried. "Order my horses; I will
be gone immediately!"

"What, Sir!" said James, surprised and dejected: "not see my Lady, now
you have found her?"

"Found her--found whom?" asked the Captain hastily.

"My honoured Lady, Sir; Madam Crawton, who lived at Brighthelmstone."

"My Ellenor here!" exclaimed the Captain, starting from his seat, every
feature instantly illumined with joy.--"O God of Heaven! tell me where
she is, this instant!"

"At the house, your Honour, where Mr. Frederick went with the gentleman
and lady: I saw Madam Crawton as she came out of the parlour. I could
not at the moment be certain it was her; but, willing to satisfy myself,
I returned as soon as my young master reached the inn, and saw Mrs.
Susan putting some parcels into a carriage. I remembered Mrs. Susan
perfectly well; and at that moment my Lady came to the door. I was then
convinced, and hastened back to acquaint your Honour."

The Captain could scarcely retain patience till James concluded; when,
quick as lightning, he darted out of the room, followed by his nephew
and Mr. Talton, and in a few minutes reached the residence of Lieutenant
Booyers.

With a beating heart he raised the knocker; but all remained silent: no
ready footstep answered to the summons. Again he knocked--when a peasant
slowly advanced from the back of the garden, and, with a surly voice,
demanded their business?

"Is Mrs. Crawton, or Lieutenant Booyers, at home?" asked the Captain.

"They are not," answered the man. "They have left the village."

"Left the village!" faltered the Captain.

"Yes," replied the man. "So, for once you have missed your aim."

"Missed indeed!" he cried. "But say--where are they gone?--Tell me, I
conjure you."

"I will perish first," answered the man. "I know your business too
well!"

"It is impossible," said the Captain, "you should know my business."

"Is not your name Talton!" interrupted the man.

"My name is," answered Mr. Talton. "But I cannot conceive what concern
that has with the lady in question."

"A great deal," said the man. "So, once more I tell you, you have
missed your aim. My lady will not go to prison this time!"

"God forbid she should," exclaimed the Captain. "Yet tell me, I entreat
you--."

But the peasant disregarded his entreaties, and, again repeating his
observation, pursued his way to his own home. The disappointment was too
severe for the Captain to support with his wonted firmness: he sunk on
the shoulder of his nephew, whose astonishment could only be equalled by
his concern, at finding the house so suddenly deserted: he begged his
uncle (who would have followed the peasant) to return to the inn,
declaring he would himself go after him, and, either by money or
threats, extort from him what he knew concerning Mrs. Crawton. The
Captain complied, and, accompanied by Mr. Talton, retraced his steps to
the inn, where he ordered the horses to be immediately saddled.

Jarvis (who had been informed by James, of what he knew concerning the
Captain and the unfortunate Ellenor) observing the agitation of his
guest, begged to know if any thing disagreeable had happened? Mr. Talton
satisfied his curiosity, so far as saying, the Lieutenant and his
friends, with whom they had particular business, had left the village,
and at the same time asked if he knew any thing respecting Mrs.
Crawton?

"There were a Mrs. Crawton and another lady, your Honour," answered
Jarvis, "came here just before Miss Hannah died; but I cannot say I ever
saw either of them. The young folks, (for one has a son, and the other a
daughter) I have frequently seen. As for the Lieutenant leaving the
village, the man must be mistaken, though he may be accompanying the
ladies to their own habitation: however, if it be that which concerns
your Honours, I will be bound to gain you intelligence to what part of
the country they are gone, in the space of an hour."

The Captain thankfully accepted the offer, and impatiently waited the
return of Frederick, who, with a dejected countenance, soon entered the
room.

"I have not been able to succeed, my dear Sir," he cried; "the man is
sworn to secrecy; and all I have been able to learn from him, is--they
have fled, to avoid Mr. Talton and a jail."

"Avoid me!" exclaimed Mr. Talton, with surprise. "There is some mystery
in this, which I cannot develope. From the time I first left England,
till this evening, I have never heard of Mrs. Crawton; and to Lieutenant
Booyers I am a perfect stranger."

"My Ellenor flying, and from fear of a prison!" cried the Captain. "To
what distress may she not be reduced! Would that Jarvis was returned!
the torments I endure are insupportable!"

Jarvis soon after re-entered--"I have gained but little information,
your Honour," he began, "and that I believe not strictly true. The
Lieutenant has certainly left the village. It was the appearance of you,
Sir, (to Mr. Talton) it seems, which has driven them so abruptly from
their home. They have taken the road to Chepstow; but whether they
propose staying there, is not known."

"That information is sufficient," said the Captain. "I will instantly
follow them. Let me but recover Ellenor and my son--it is all I ask of
Heaven!"

Jarvis, who was liberally rewarded for his trouble, procured them a
guide, and they immediately directed their course toward Chepstow. But
the Captain was doomed to experience disappointment; no such carriage or
persons as he described had been seen; and he could only suppose Jarvis
had been misinformed, or that they had pursued their way farther into
the country. Indulging this last idea, he determined to continue the
pursuit; but every effort proved ineffectual to discover the lost
Ellenor; and, to add to his distress, he received an express to return
on board, the fleet being ready to sail.

Reluctantly he obeyed, and, on reaching Weymouth, was met by Mrs.
Howard, who with increasing malignancy endeavoured to revenge herself
for the temporary respite he had enjoyed. Mr. Talton accompanied the
Captain on board, where, promising to use every endeavour during his
absence from England to discover Ellenor, he bade him adieu, and,
returning on shore, proceeded to Bath, to renew his addresses to Lady
Corbet.

No particular occurrence marked the voyage: the name of St. Ledger was
still mentioned with regret by the crew, and dwelt on with a painful
delight by Frederick and his uncle; who passed his hours in painful
retrospects, and conjectures for the present state of his Ellenor,
enlivened only by the praises the friendly Frederick bestowed on the
person and interesting manners of his son, so greatly resembling those
of the deceased Sir Henry.




CHAPTER VII.


More than twelve months had elapsed since the death of Sir Henry, when
the fleet returned to St. Helena. The pleasure experienced by his
officers and crew, on attaining this favourite spot, extended itself to
the bosom of the Captain: the mind of Harland too yielded to its
influence; the stern contraction of his brow gave place to the smile of
satisfaction, and, with a heart unwontedly attuned to cheerfulness, he
accompanied the Captain and Frederick to the Governor's, where a large
party were assembled, not only of the principal inhabitants, but
several officers and passengers belonging to some French vessels bound
for Pondicherry, and which had arrived there the preceding day.

Amongst the passengers, the Marchioness de Valois, her daughters, and a
Mademoiselle de St. Ursule, claimed pre-eminence; the beauty of the
latter, indeed, gained universal admiration, nor could the bosom of
Harland long resist the influence of a softer passion. The Governor's
nephew likewise yielded an unresisting captive to charms unequalled in
the Eastern clime; and, uncontrolled by any authority but that of an
uncle, whose partiality ever extenuated his faults, and exaggerated the
few amiable qualities he possessed to the height of human perfection,
he looked on success as certain wherever he chose to prefer his suit.

Harland observed the freedom of his addresses with an eye of jealousy,
heightened by the diffidence he for the first time experienced of
himself. Humbled, yet indignant, he returned on board, and hastened to
his cabin; whence, in the morning, he was roused by the information,
that they were to pass the day with the Marchioness, with whom the
Captain had been acquainted in England.

Impetuous in every pursuit, this intelligence in an instant dissipated
every mortifying reflection, and he impatiently waited for the hour
which would again present the lovely Louise to his sight.

The sentiments with which she had inspired him, he attempted not to
conceal; his conduct through the day sufficiently evinced them; whilst
the blushing sweetness with which she permitted his assiduities, and the
mildness of her manners, so different from the generality of the French,
but increased the passion he had imbibed.

Though convinced she regarded the Governor's nephew with indifference,
he became still more dissatisfied with that gentleman's behaviour toward
her, which he found would oblige him to a declaration to the Marchioness
sooner than he intended; as he wished to have been previously certified
of Louise's sentiments respecting himself, and to learn from her an
account of her family and connexions, with which he was as yet
unacquainted. He could not, however, in idea yield to the pretensions of
another, and accordingly, a few days after, took the opportunity of
accompanying the Captain to the Marchioness, and, with all the energy of
an unfeigned passion, declared his admiration of Louise, and entreated
her permission to his addresses.

The Marchioness, imagining the declaration to proceed from a
prepossession as easily eradicated as raised, answered--"That Louise is
deserving of your highest admiration, I acknowledge; but her station in
life is beneath what you may with justice aspire to. She is an
orphan--without a name; brought up by charity, and received into my
family, at the request of my daughters, as a companion: and I think,
young gentleman, you must acknowledge I should ill deserve the name of
patroness, if I permitted an acquaintance a few weeks must unavoidably
dissolve.--As a friend of Captain Howard, and a gentleman, I shall ever
be happy to see you in the circle of my acquaintance, but never as the
lover of Louise.

"It is now nineteen years, Captain," continued the Marchioness, "since
Louise was found at the gate of the Convent of St. Ursule: the picture,
as we suppose, of her mother, was tied round her neck with a paper, on
which was written the word--"Louisa!" The Abbess caused a search to be
made after the parents; but, not being able to discover them, received
and reared the infant. My daughters were educated at St. Ursule's, and
attached to Louise from her childhood; at their request, when she was
about sixteen, the Abbess resigned her to my protection."

Ill could the haughty soul of Harland brook this refusal of the
Marchioness, which was beginning to raise a sentiment of indignation in
his breast against that lady, when the entrance of Louise obliterated
every idea but of her; each moment presented new attractions to his
fascinated senses; and he determined to espouse her privately, and leave
the issue to Providence, rather than forego his addresses; as love and
pride whispered--her birth must be reputable, if not noble!

The day succeeding this, he accompanied the Captain and Frederick to a
_fête_ at the Governor's, where the Marchioness and her family were
likewise present: but the pleasure Louise's presence would have created,
was destroyed by the marked attentions of young Ferrand, the Governor's
nephew; and, unable to endure the seeming satisfaction, or even the
presence of his rival, which prevented his conversing freely with
Louise, he entreated to speak with her in private, and, without waiting
for an answer, conducted her into an adjoining room. He there acquainted
her with his application to the Marchioness; her rejection of his suit;
and vehemently urged her to a private marriage.

Louise was concerned at the Marchioness's refusal, but declared she
never would consent to any engagement without her approbation; and
gently chid Harland for the rudeness of his behaviour to Ferrand.
Harland could not conceal his chagrin at this second rejection, and
accused Louise of an unjust preference to his rival; against whom he
vowed the severest vengeance.

The East-Indian, who had equally observed the assiduities of Harland,
and equally felt the influence of jealousy, had followed them
unperceived, and heard the whole of their conversation. He now sprung
from his concealment, and would have commenced hostilities on the spot,
had not the terrified Louise entreated Harland to reconduct her to the
company. Though hurried nearly to madness by the violence of passion,
the voice of Louise recalled him to reason; or rather her request,
trivial as it was, implied, he thought, a preference to him over his
rival, which, by gratifying his wishes, conduced to calm the tumult
raised in his bosom.

Louise, though she had given a denial to his suit, could not behave to
him with indifference: on the contrary, she endeavoured, by many little
attentions, to soften her rejection, and which Harland was too happy at
the moment in receiving, to bestow a thought on the motive whence they
arose.

Amidst the festivity which reigned, young Ferrand was the only one
really unconscious of pleasure. Ungovernable in his passions, he could
as little brook an appearance of slight, as Harland could refusal. A
sentiment of respect and awe he entertained for his uncle, withheld him
from disturbing the mirth of the evening by an open quarrel with the
Lieutenant; he therefore determined on a surer revenge than he was
certain of being able to inflict with his own hand.

It was late when the company separated, and Harland, with the Captain
and Frederick, were returning to the Bay, when they were attacked by
four men, who in a moment struck the Captain to the ground. Harland,
whose courage equalled his passions, immediately drew, as did Frederick,
and endeavoured to guard the Captain, against whose life the ruffians
seemed principally to direct their attention. A sharp conflict ensued,
in which their assailants had evidently the superiority, and they were
nearly overpowered, when a man, wrapped in a large roquelaure, hastily
approached. Frederick apprehended an associate of the ruffians, but was
agreeably undeceived by one of them being instantly levelled with the
dust by the contents of a pistol! The stranger then flew to his side,
and, seizing the Captain's sword, obliged the assassins in their turn to
act on the defensive.

Alarmed by the report of the pistol, the boat's crew, who were waiting
for the Captain, followed the direction of the sound, and arrived at the
moment the ruffians, unable to perpetrate their design, fled; leaving
their companion behind them, severely wounded.

Frederick instantly assisted to raise his uncle; and the sailors,
mistaking the stranger for one of the assassins, as instantly secured
him, and, finding the fort alarmed, took the Captain in their arms and
returned to the boat.

When they arrived on board, proper applications were used to restore the
Captain, who had been rendered senseless by the blow; and who, after
assuring his nephew he was not materially hurt, inquired after the men
who had assaulted them.

Frederick, whose anxiety for his uncle had till that moment precluded
every other idea, immediately recalled to mind the generous stranger;
and, with the warmest praises on his bravery, related the service he had
rendered them. The glow of impatient gratitude for a moment warmed the
cheek of the Captain, as he looked round for this unknown friend: but
not discovering him, he eagerly asked where he was?--and, to his great
surprise, was informed the men had confined him till his pleasure
respecting him should be known.

"Merciful Heaven!" he ejaculated. "What a return!--Frederick--"

Frederick flew out of the cabin, and in a short time re-entered,
conducting the stranger, who held his cloak to his face, as wishing to
be concealed.

The Captain rose, supported by Harland, and, extending his hand,
said--"I know not, Sir, how to offer an apology for the injurious
treatment you have received, from the honest but mistaken zeal of my
men, but, misled by appearance, they could not distinguish whether you
were friend or foe. To the aid you so generously afforded, I am
undoubtedly indebted for the preservation of my life, for which I return
my most sincere thanks. Will you now inform me to whom I am thus
obliged, that I may likewise by my actions prove my gratitude."

The stranger appeared agitated, clasped his hands, then, hastily
advancing to the Captain, sunk at his feet, and, throwing off the
roquelaure, discovered to his astonished senses--Sir Henry Corbet!

With a countenance pale as though oppressed by death, the Captain
regarded him, whilst Sir Henry, seizing his hand, pressed it to his
breast, and exclaimed--"Repay the obligation, then, by restoring me to
that place in your friendship I once possessed, and granting that
protection I still must entreat!"

The Captain endeavoured to raise and answer him, but, unable to speak,
gave a faint groan, and sunk into the arms of Frederick; who, confounded
and amazed at the apparition, could scarcely credit the evidence of his
senses, or believe the person of his friend to be real.

Sir Henry, equally alarmed at the state of the Captain, assisted to
convey him to his cabin; and, when recovered, joined his entreaties to
the surgeon's, that he would seek the repose he so much required. The
Captain unwillingly yielded to their solicitations; as he wished to
have had an immediate explanation respecting the re-appearance of one
whom he had so long thought dead; but, Sir Henry promising to satisfy
his curiosity on the morrow, retired--having been previously assured
that his request for protection should not a second time be refused.

Accordingly, in the morning, he attended with Frederick; and the
Captain, as soon as he beheld him, gave him his hand, saying with a
smile--"I find, Sir Henry, I must be doubly your debtor: your assistance
last night preserved my life and now to you I must look for those
blessings which can alone render life desirable. To you, my Ellenor, in
her letter, refers me for intelligence: tell me then what fate she has
hitherto experienced; for much I fear fortune may have in every respect
proved unfavourable."

"Of Ellenor and your son, Captain," answered Sir Henry, "I have little
to relate. At the time she left London with her infant, she sought the
protection of my father, who procured her an honourable asylum in the
family of the Reverend Mr. Blond; with his relict I believe she at
present resides. Edward, when I first quitted England, was pursuing his
studies at the University; which he left previously to the report of my
death; and, with his mother and Mrs. Blond, fled--to avoid the unfeeling
hand of oppression; but where to--I know not."

"I feared as much!" sighed the Captain.--"But Heaven," he continued with
a more cheerful accent, "may yet befriend me. I have by a miracle, I
cannot call it less, recovered you from the grave: and from your hand I
still hope to receive my Ellenor. I am, I find, necessary to the
elucidation of the mysteries Mr. Talton formerly mentioned: the
friendship you have shown to my son, independently of the regard I
entertain for yourself, demands from me the readiest assistance: tell
me, then, what course I am to pursue, and doubt not my proving the
friend you wish."

Sir Henry warmly thanked the Captain for the generous offer. "Personal
protection," he continued, "is all I at present request...." He paused a
moment, then again continued--"I last night, Captain Howard, promised to
explain to you the accident by which you were led into the belief of my
death, and, as far as I am at liberty, to relate the particulars of my
conduct. Of the latter, I can say but little; and only entreat you will
not judge or condemn me by appearances.

"Mr. Talton, I presume, has already acquainted you with the marriage of
my parents; of which I am the only offspring: the offspring, indeed, of
indifference! Since reason dawned, I have drunk the bitter draught of
unhappiness: my childhood passed in sorrow; parental hatred still
pursued me--and the events of one night, soon after the death of my
father, I acknowledge, nearly bereft me of reason! To fly from scenes I
had not strength of mind to support, I left my home, and sought relief
in the bosom of friendship; till a mother's tears won me to return, when
again I became the prey of midnight horrors!

"Long I sustained them; till nature sunk beneath their influence, and
nearly resigned me to the grave! Again I resolved to fly.--'Seek my
Edward,' said your Ellenor; 'his generous hand will sustain thee, and
hereafter bear thy character open to the world!' She accordingly wrote,
and, with the assistance of a gypsey, from whom I procured an humble
disguise, I eluded the watchfulness of my mother, and again became an
itinerant.

"I was nearly three weeks, in the weak state of my health, crossing the
kingdom; as I had gained intelligence you were stationed at Yarmouth;
where I was inquiring if any of your crew were on shore, when the
appearance of Mr. Talton nearly annihilated me! Imagining he was in
quest of me, I heeded not the answer to my question; but fled--and
Providence conducted me to your nephew. Not wishing to be known to any
other than the Captain Howard, whom I sought, I assumed the name of my
friend, which shame afterwards withheld me from resigning, or delivering
the letter I had received from Ellenor.--Refused your protection when
discovered by Mr. Talton, and fearing, if persuasion failed, he would
force me to return with him, I had no alternative but to leave the ship.
Scarcely knowing what I did, I gave the letter to one of the men, and,
hastily descending to the boat, was conveyed on shore. I pursued my way
toward Lowestoff, when, recollecting Talton probably would endeavour to
trace me, I changed clothes with a lad I overtook, and, giving him my
watch, he promised secrecy, should any inquiries respecting me be made.
My intention then was to have proceeded to Harwich; whence I thought it
probable I might find some vessel going to the Continent: but, late in
the evening, I was met by some smugglers. Without ceremony, they
demanded who I was, and where I was going? I answered these questions to
their satisfaction; when, judging by my garb I should suit their
service, they, without farther interrogation, informed me I must go with
them. As my life was fully in their power, I thought it most prudent to
assent with an appearance of good-will, and therefore readily
accompanied them on board a cutter they had lying a little distance from
the shore. Our sails were immediately set, and we passed before the wind
with such rapidity as soon freed me from my fears of Talton. We
proceeded to the coast of Holland, where with some difficulty I escaped
from my companions, and got on board a trading vessel belonging to
Cardigan; and, wishing to see your Ellenor and Mrs. Blond, immediately
on my arrival there set out for Caermarthen, which I reached in the
evening.

"Fearful of passing near the hall, lest any of the servants should
discover me, I went by the village; but, my precaution was useless: an
old man, who had formerly been in the service of my grandfather,
accidentally followed, and knew me notwithstanding my disguise; and,
misled by the report of my death, declared to some of his neighbours he
had seen my spectre! As I was hastening to the humble dwelling of Mrs.
Blond, I was stopped by the appearance of Mallet, my mother's steward;
and, knowing the consequence which must ensue if I were seen by him, I
fled to the cottage of old Owen for shelter. Owen had that instant
entered, and was relating his tale to his wife, when my re-appearance
and voice convinced him of his mistake. He acquainted me with the tale
which was circulated of my death, and regretted the freedom with which
he had mentioned seeing me that evening: for Owen well knew the
circumstances which had driven me from my home; and, as Mr. Talton was
returned, advised me instantly to fly Caermarthen; promising, if any
notice should be taken of what he had uttered, to conduct himself in
such a manner as should effectually screen me from danger. I thanked
him, and, finding Mallet was gone, hastened to the residence of your
Ellenor. But, alas! Captain, it was deserted; she had left her ancient
asylum, with Mrs. Blond, but a few days before! This intelligence I
learned from a servant who was left in the house, and who likewise told
me some particulars, that"--

Sir Henry paused--hesitated!

"I was obliged to enter the walls of Corbet Hall--what passed, I may
hereafter relate; though, would to Heaven it could be for ever blotted
from my remembrance!

"Spiritless and truly forlorn, every hope destroyed, I retraced my
steps to Cardigan; and engaged as a common sailor, in a merchantman
trading to Havre-de-Grace; but not liking the Captain, I left him on our
arrival there, and led a wandering life: till I entered on board a
vessel at L'Orient bound for Pondicherry; which arrived at this island
with others a few days since.

"The restraint imposed on me by the presence of my messmates, was too
severe to support continually: beside the anguish which preyed on my
mind, my heart was with you; I wished to eradicate those sentiments you
entertained from the misrepresentations of Talton, and regain that place
in your friendship I once enjoyed.

"To indulge these wishes, and enjoy the freedom of reflection, I last
night sought for solitude; when the clashing of swords drew me to your
assistance. I first distinguished the voice of Frederick, which brought
with it the idea that Mr. Talton (as he once mentioned an intention of
visiting the Indies) might be with you: as the most probable means of
concealment, I therefore determined on silence; trusting that in the
hurry of their attendance on you, I might unobserved satisfy my
suspicions, and, if they were just, escape again to shore."

"Yet, tell me," said the Captain, "on what account you so anxiously
wish to avoid Mr. Talton? or why my Ellenor so precipitately fled from
Lieutenant Booyers's, on hearing of his arrival in the village? He
hinted that she was involved in pecuniary difficulties; to which
Talton's name was annexed. Is she answerable to him for any money?"

Sir Henry answered in the negative, and begged to know what he
particularly alluded to, as he had not mentioned the immediate cause of
her flight. The Captain related what had passed at Lieutenant Booyers',
and the idea he entertained, that Mr. Talton, notwithstanding his
assertion to the contrary, had proved an enemy to his Ellenor.

Sir Henry gave a sigh to the sorrows of poor Booyers; who, he said,
would prove a real protector to Ellenor till it pleased Heaven to
conduct them to her. "But, alas!" he continued, "the cloud which
envelopes me, likewise extends its pernicious influence to her."




CHAPTER VIII.


Frederick now turned the discourse to the occurrence of the preceding
night; and proposed going on shore, to learn, if possible, who were the
assailants, as he could not from their conduct think them robbers. The
Captain consented; when Harland, who burned with impatience to revenge
his quarrel with young Ferrand, asked permission to accompany him; which
having obtained, he hastily took his pistols, and, with Frederick, was
conveyed to shore.

The soldiers who the night before, on the report of the pistol, hastened
to the spot where the Captain had been assaulted, found the wounded man,
and conveyed him to the fort; he was there discovered to be one of the
Governor's attendants: and, on being questioned, declared he had been
attacked by several men, against whom he defended himself, till one of
them shot him; that, as soon as he fell, the ruffians fled, imagining,
he supposed, that they had effectually executed their purpose, and he
was soon after found by the soldiers.

The Governor was accordingly informed of the circumstance, and ordered
an immediate search to be made after the supposed assassins. At this
juncture, the companions of the wounded, who were likewise in the
service of the Governor, returned, and endeavoured to get unperceived to
their apartment; but the blood with which one of them was plenteously
bedewed, betrayed them to their fellows: they were seized, confined,
and, as soon as the Governor rose in the morning, conveyed into his
presence. At first they refused to answer to the charge against them;
till the Governor threatened to have them instantly punished for their
cruelty; when they vehemently protested their innocence; but, on being
further urged, confessed they had been instigated by a considerable
gratuity from young Ferrand, to undertake the assassination of
Lieutenant Harland; in the attempt of which their companion had been
wounded.

This, the wounded man was at last likewise induced to acknowledge; and,
with great apparent contrition, implored the clemency of the Governor.
That gentleman, justly incensed at this proceeding of his nephew,
ordered him to be immediately called; and committed the men to strict
confinement, till he should learn whether or not they had perpetrated
their design.

At this instant Frederick and Harland arrived; on beholding the latter,
young Ferrand turned pale; and the Governor, with some surprise,
demanded an explanation of Frederick, of what he knew concerning the
affair. Frederick gave an account of the assault, and concluded with the
assurance, that his uncle, whom the men had mistaken for Harland, was
not in the least danger. The Governor expressed his satisfaction at the
latter intelligence, so much more favourable than he had expected: but,
as he could not readily pardon the violent measures his nephew had
pursued, he commanded him immediately to retire to his country seat:
and, to prevent his having an opportunity of meeting Harland, ordered
the Lieutenant instantly to return and remain on board.

Inconceivable was the rage of Harland and Ferrand at this restriction:
but they were obliged to obey; each secretly tormented with the idea,
that his rival would find opportunities of seeing Louise, and gaining
her affections. The keen eye of jealousy had soon told Ferrand Louise
preferred Harland to himself; wounded pride and indignation now led to
the desire of revenge; and before he reached the abode, appointed by his
uncle, he resolved to carry her off; by which means he should
effectually punish her disregard for himself, and triumph over his
rival. He had trusty slaves, and a retreat well calculated to secrete
his prize from the knowledge of her friends and his uncle, who might
otherwise severely resent his committing this second outrage.

Whilst Ferrand was settling his plan of procedure, Harland returned on
board; one moment glowing with rage to chastise the East-Indian; the
next, nearly frantic, lest his rank, and the interest of his uncle,
should ultimately gain him the hand of Louise. The being debarred from
seeing her, likewise added to the tumult of his mind; which the presence
of Sir Henry, or the commendations bestowed on him by others, did not
tend to alleviate.

Often in secret had he sighed for that cordiality and esteem Sir Henry
experienced, instead of the cold respect with which himself was treated:
but pride would not let him deviate from the conduct he had hitherto
pursued; and, at the moment he regretted its influence, it hurried him
into greater excesses.

In a few days the Captain, being perfectly recovered, sent an
invitation to the Governor, and the principal part of the company he had
met at that gentleman's, to pass the ensuing day on board the Argo:
at the time appointed, the impatient Harland anxiously watched the
approaching boats, and with joy perceived the lovely Louise seated by
the Marchioness.

On beholding the fair European, the gaiety Sir Henry had assumed,
suddenly deserted him; in vain he endeavoured to withdraw his eyes and
attention from the fascinating maid; emotions but too perceptible
agitated him, and the consciousness of betraying his feelings, increased
them to the most painful degree.

Harland at last observed him, and jealousy whispered that Sir Henry
loved Louise. The idea, in an instant, clouded the happiness her
presence had given rise to; as Sir Henry, he well knew, must prove a far
more formidable rival than Ferrand, whose chief recommendations were
rank and fortune; but Sir Henry, to equal attractions, united a person,
in which every manly beauty, fast springing to perfection, received
additional lustre from an innate elegance of manners. Melancholy,
indeed, had too apparently "marked him for her own," but that melancholy
rendered him still more interesting.

Louise heeded not his agitation or attention, till an accident, trivial
in itself, forced it to her observation, and confirmed the suspicion of
Harland.

In extending her hand to re-place some fruit, a miniature fell from her
bosom; Sir Henry took it up, but in restoring it to the fair owner,
glanced his eyes on the features it represented. "Oh God, it is
herself!"--he exclaimed, and grasped the hand of Louise--but checking
the rising sentence, hastily gave the picture, and rushed past Frederick
out of the cabin. Frederick instantly followed to ask an explanation,
and found Sir Henry in the utmost agitation.

"For Heaven's sake, my friend," he exclaimed, "what is the occasion of
this strange behaviour? Recollect yourself; nor force the company to
surmises perhaps equally injurious to Mademoiselle St. Ursule and
yourself. Yield not thus to the influence of your passions, or I shall
indeed fear for your reason. Believe me, Sir Henry, I wish not
impertinently to pry into those secrets honour forbids your
revealing--yet to those you can confide, I must assert my right. You
know my heart: it beats with the sincerest friendship toward you: trust
it then, Sir Henry--and let it at least share your sorrows!"

Sir Henry wrung his hand--"Oh Frederick, that night--that fatal
night!--and now Louise"--

"Is, I am afraid, attached to George," said Frederick. Sir Henry did
not notice the observation, but continued--"Yet why should I shrink from
an explanation? No--I will wait on the Marchioness to-morrow."--

"To that you must first have my consent!" exclaimed Harland, bursting
into the cabin. "I love Louise; and, before I will resign the thoughts
of her, I will resign my life! You had better, therefore, withdraw your
pretensions."

"What means this interruption, Lieutenant Harland?" said Sir Henry. "My
pretensions to Louise are founded on ties far above your power to
controvert or forbid!"

Passion gleamed in the eyes of Harland; and Frederick, fearing a quarrel
would ensue, entreated they would cease the subject, and return to the
company: but Sir Henry declared he was too much indisposed to experience
pleasure in society. Harland, whose jealousy had induced him to follow
Sir Henry, to demand an explanation of his words, concluding the attempt
would prove ineffectual, yielded to the remonstrances of Frederick, and
returned to the gentle Louise; yet, the idea of Sir Henry's application
to the Marchioness, and the fear that his overtures would be accepted,
added poignancy to his torments. Harland determined, however, if
possible, to frustrate his design; accordingly, as soon as the company
returned on shore, he sought Sir Henry, and demanded a conference; this
was refused; and he passed the night in reflections ill calculated to
calm the passion which rage and jealousy had excited.

In the morning Sir Henry was taking advantage of the earliest boat, when
Harland, who had been watching his appearance, hurried after him, and
springing into it, declared he should not go unaccompanied. Sir Henry
could not conceal his chagrin, but, seating himself in silence, they
were conveyed on shore.

Meanwhile, Frederick, anxious to prevent the consequences he apprehended
from the passionate Harland, as soon as he rose, went to his cabin, to
exert his influence in conciliating the jealous difference: but, being
informed he was gone on shore with Sir Henry, and missing his pistols,
he hastened to his uncle, and, acquainting him with the preceding
transactions, begged he would permit him to follow them, to prevent
hostilities. The Captain said he was too well assured of Sir Henry's
forbearance to fear a duel: he rather supposed they were gone to the
Marchioness, whither ordering the barge, he immediately proceeded,
accompanied by Frederick: but Sir Henry and Harland had not been there.

On being landed, Harland took Sir Henry by the arm, and, conducting him
from the town, asked if he recollected the sentiments he had avowed the
preceding evening: these the Lieutenant repeated, at the same time
declaring he would oppose every pretension for the favour of Louise, and
more especially from him, whom he hated!

"As I am certain, no part of my conduct," said Sir Henry, "has given
just cause for your hatred, I can forgive that arising from jealousy. On
no account, however, shall I defer my intended visit to the Marchioness,
in which you have altogether mistaken my motive."

"Mistaken your motive!" repeated Harland haughtily. "Do you not love
Louise--what other proof, then, is requisite?"

"That I love Louise," said Sir Henry, "I acknowledge; but, as we cannot
agree upon this subject, I will wish you good morning." He coolly bowed,
and was leaving him, when Harland, catching hold of his arm, presented
his pistols, and desired he would take his choice.

"I shall not fight, Lieutenant," said Sir Henry: but Harland forced a
pistol into his hand, and, retiring a few paces, fired; but fortunately
without effect. Sir Henry discharged his pistol in the air, and,
returning it, asked if he was satisfied? Passion had by this time so far
overpowered the Lieutenant as to deprive him of articulation; and Sir
Henry continued--"From my general conduct, Harland, you must be
convinced it is not fear which deters me from fighting: but as you are
mistaken in the motive which induces you to this action, I should think
myself unpardonable to resent it, otherwise than by assuring you of your
mistake. Conscious of the rectitude of my intentions, I do not fear any
scrutiny you may make on my conduct; for which, if you hereafter demand
satisfaction, you shall find me ready to render it, in any way you
require."

He again bowed, and, repeating his salutation, walked on. "Stay! Sir
Henry," vociferated Harland: "at least you shall not go alone to the
Marchioness: and beware how you act; for, depend upon it, you shall
hereafter render me account!"

They arrived at the Marchioness's, as the Captain concluded the account
he had received from Frederick. She smiled when they entered; and
Harland, with all the incoherence that anxiety and jealousy could
excite, renewed his entreaties, that she would permit his addresses to
Louise. He offered to settle the whole of the fortune he then possessed
on her; and even to engage his parents to make an addition, if required.
The Marchioness listened calmly to his offer, and gently chid him for
his disobedience of the Governor's orders; but, on being farther
importuned by the impatient Harland, repeated her former motives for
refusing him: then addressing Sir Henry--"The same reasons, I presume,
Sir Henry, will answer your pretensions."

"My pretensions, Madam," faltered Sir Henry, "are different from those
of Lieutenant Harland. I seek a child, who nineteen years since was left
at the gates of St. Ursule, in Rennes: whether Louise be that child, is
easily known: tell me, Madam, if you have ever beheld a miniature
similar to this?"

He drew one from his bosom, and presented it to the Marchioness.

"Similar to this!" she repeated with surprise. "Good Heavens, this is
the miniature that was found with Louise! Tell me, I entreat you, Sir
Henry, how it came into your possession; or if you know aught which
could develope the mystery of her birth?"

At that moment Louise entered, and the Marchioness continued--"St.
Ursule, my child, come hither. You are in the highest degree interested
in the present subject. Sir Henry Corbet has brought this miniature, and
inquires for a child who some years back was left at the gates of St.
Ursule, in Rennes."

The colour fled the interesting face of Louise at this account: with a
trembling hand she took the miniature, and compared it with that she
constantly wore; the resemblance was exact. "Oh, Sir Henry!" she
exclaimed; "tell me, I conjure you, whence this picture? You seek a
child--say, do you know my parents, or the reason of their cruel
desertion of me in my infancy?"

"Cruel desertion indeed!" said Sir Henry; "arising from shame to
acknowledge their offspring! But no longer shall you be a dependent! My
heart claimed you the moment I beheld you; and a view of your mother's
picture, last night, but confirmed my suspicion, that you were--my
sister!"

He clasped her in his arms in an affectionate embrace, unresisted by
Louise; who, surprised and bewildered at the unexpected claim, was for
some moments incapable of speaking.

"Your sister!" exclaimed the Captain and the Marchioness. "Good God! Sir
Henry, by what strange circumstances?"

"Seek not an explanation, now," said Sir Henry, "which must expose the
frailties of a parent. The time is approaching, when every action must
be revealed; but till then, spare me--spare Louise!"

Louise now disengaged herself from the arms of Sir Henry, and, throwing
herself into those of the Marchioness, cried--"Oh, Madam, congratulate
your Louise; she is no longer the child of desertion: she has found a
relation--she has found a brother!"

The Marchioness embraced her affectionately; and Sir Henry then
presented her to the Captain and Frederick, as his sister.

"And will not you too participate in the happiness of this moment?" said
the smiling Louise, advancing to Harland; who had witnessed the
discovery with sensations of horror rather than surprise. Roused from
his torpor by this address, he regarded her a moment, then, wildly
dashing his forehead, exclaimed--"By Heavens, my brain is on fire!" and
ran precipitately out of the room. This incoherent behaviour of Harland
repressed the joy arising in the bosom of Louise: she looked round as
entreating an explanation.

"Do not be alarmed, my sweet girl," said the Captain: "these flights of
Harland's are not unfrequent: reflection will restore him to himself."

The Marchioness would have urged the particulars of Louise's birth: but
Sir Henry again entreated to be spared the relation, at the same time
expressing a wish that Louise should accompany him to England. The
validity of his claim, the Marchioness could not doubt: the account she
had received of him from the Captain would not admit the idea; yet she
declared she could not consent to part with Louise till the difficulties
in which he appeared involved, were terminated; she would then with
pleasure resign the office of guardian. With this determination Sir
Henry was obliged to comply, and, after passing an interesting and
agreeable day, returned with Frederick on board.

Here the servant of Harland, with a pallid countenance, informed them,
his master had returned in the morning, in a state approaching to
frenzy, which, after many inconsistent actions, had produced an attempt
on his life! Alarmed at this account, they hastened to his cabin, where
they found him in a raging fever.

The shock he had experienced on finding that Sir Henry, to whom he had
avowed such enmity, was the brother of Louise, and who in all
probability would have the guidance of her future conduct, was to be
equalled only by the knowledge of her birth, which, contrary to his
sanguine expectations, was ignoble: yet this consideration yielded to
the idea, that Sir Henry, in revenge, would influence his sister
against him, and perhaps withdraw her from his knowledge.

Hurried into an excess of desperation on this supposititious
disappointment to his love, he had madly attempted self-destruction; in
which he was prevented by his servant; but his mind, unable to regain
its wonted powers, had resigned him a prey to a burning fever.

On beholding Sir Henry, every torturing reflection rose with additional
poignancy: his friendly inquiries he deemed insulting, and desired to be
left alone, or to the care of the surgeon and his servant. Sir Henry
complied, fearing his refusal would recall that frenzy, which a few
hours after returned from the violence of his disease.

For two days his life was despaired of: youth and medicine, however,
prevailed; and the first object which presented itself to his returning
senses, was Sir Henry performing the little offices of friendship. He
shrunk from the view; but Sir Henry took his hand, and in the most
cordial manner expressed his satisfaction at his amendment.

Pride, shame, remorse, and gratitude, contended a moment, for
pre-eminence in his bosom; but his mind, softened by illness, yielded to
the latter, and, pressing the hand of Sir Henry, he faintly said--"Why
must I regard you as an enemy?"

Sir Henry, who beneath the haughty exterior of Harland's manners, had
discovered the virtues which were in reality the possessors of his
bosom, though warped by the prejudices of education, answered--"Put me
to the test, and let me prove myself a friend! Not my actions, but the
passions of Harland, have induced him to entertain the idea: would he
yield to the philanthropy nature implanted in his heart, and regard
mankind as worthy his esteem, Corbet would indeed hail him as a friend
and brother!"

The word Brother occasioned a tumult in the breast of Harland, which the
surgeon observing, insisted on their ceasing farther conversation; and
Sir Henry soon after left him to his repose.

From this time Harland rapidly recovered, and a few days after ventured
to mention Louise. Sir Henry assured him of his ready concurrence in his
addresses to his sister; and, observing a latent spark of pride
rekindling at the idea of her birth, said--"The circumstance of Louise's
birth cannot, I admit, be justified: but reason, if not love, will
acquit her of the fault and shame which must reflect on her parents. Her
intrinsic virtues have gained her the admiration and friendship of her
own sex; can ours then hesitate a moment in acknowledging them? And
remember, if it were not originally for their virtues, we should none
have cause to boast of our ancestors." Harland acknowledged the justness
of his observation; and Sir Henry, at his request, undertook to plead
his cause to the Marchioness and Louise.

The Marchioness no longer objected to his addresses; more especially as
the anxiety Louise had experienced during his illness, convinced her he
was not indifferent to her. Harland, therefore, had permission to visit
as an accepted lover; the Governor, unapprehensive of any further danger
respecting his nephew, readily consenting to free him from his
interdiction.

With an exultation he neither strove to repress, nor wished to conceal,
Harland received the intelligence of his enfranchisement, with the
Marchioness's invitation; nor would the Captain, by unnecessary delays,
add to his impatience to behold Louise. Sir Henry was with his sister;
the Captain and Frederick therefore accompanied him to the
Marchioness's.

Louise, now authorised by her patroness' as well as Sir Henry's
approbation, received Harland as the lover of her choice: and his
entreaty that she would unite her fate to his before they quitted St.
Helena, was no longer refused. Louise was too ingenuous to conceal the
sentiments of her heart; and as she presented her hand, the chastened
delight which sparkled in her eyes, and the blush that suffused her
cheek, told a tale to Harland, which amply compensated for all the
anxiety he had suffered on her account.

At his ardent request, the Marchioness appointed an early day for their
nuptials; and Harland, more enamoured than ever, in the evening bade
adieu to Louise, and returned with the Captain and his youthful
companions on board; his heart replete with every pleasurable sensation
that love and the gayest illusions of hope could inspire. But short was
his promised happiness--the succeeding morning, on going to the
Marchioness's, he found that worthy lady and her daughters in tears, and
the family in the wildest confusion: Louise was not to be found; nor
could the least trace be discovered to direct them to the place where
she had fled, or been forced!

"I have dispatched a servant for Captain Howard and Sir Henry," said the
Marchioness, still weeping; "and have likewise sent for the Governor; as
I strongly suspect it to be Ferrand who has torn the sweet girl from my
protection."

The name of Ferrand recalled the suspended faculties of Harland: his
brow contracted, fire flashed in his eyes, and in dissonant terms of the
maddest passion, he vowed the destruction of his rival!

At this moment the Captain and Sir Henry arrived: the pallid countenance
of the latter spoke more forcibly than language his concern at this
accident, as, with trembling lips, he entreated the Marchioness to
explain the particulars of the account they had received from the
messenger.

Little intelligence could be given.--Louise had, the preceding night,
retired to her usual apartment; but in the morning the Marchioness,
surprised at her non-attendance at her toilet, (a duty Louise had never
neglected) sent one of her daughters to inquire if she were indisposed,
who immediately returned with the account, that she was not in her room,
nor, from the appearance of the bed, had it that night been slept in;
one of the windows was likewise open; and, from the disorder of the
furniture, and a handkerchief Louise had worn the preceding day lying on
the floor, torn, they had every reason to suppose she had been forced
away.

The relation of these circumstances increased the frenzy of Harland, who
would that instant have gone in pursuit of Ferrand. Sir Henry started up
to accompany him.

"This madness must not be," said the Captain, detaining them. "Though
suspicion points at Ferrand, you are not certain he is the aggressor;
and if he be, it is to the friendship of his uncle you must look for
redress: do not then, by an avowed act of violence, induce him to
espouse the cause you want him to condemn. But here comes the Governor;
and I beg, Harland, you will at least restrain your passion, and hear
his opinion, before you determine on your procedure."

Harland's feelings were at that moment too tremblingly alive to the
insults Louise might experience, to admit the reasonableness of the
Captain's request. Louise was the prize on which he had fixed his
happiness; nor could he, with even an appearance of indifference, see a
man so nearly related to him, who had torn her from his arms. He could
not, however, reply, as the Governor was that instant announced.

On being informed of their distress, that gentleman expressed such a
generous concern for the occasion of it, as nearly disarmed Harland of
his resentment. He assured the Marchioness, if it were his nephew who
had committed the outrage, Louise should be restored; as, independently
of her prior engagement to the Lieutenant, and amiable as he
acknowledged her to be, he did not wish Ferrand to form an alliance with
her. That no unnecessary time might be lost, he ordered two of his
attendants to proceed immediately to his countryseat, with orders, if
Louise had been carried there, to re-conduct her to the Marchioness.
The impatience of Harland could be no longer restrained; he entreated
the Governor would permit him to accompany the messengers. No one, he
pleaded, was so interested in the issue of the search as himself; no
one, then, so proper to undertake it.

"I cannot grant your request, Lieutenant," answered the Governor,
"however I may wish to oblige you; as the life of my nephew might be
endangered by my compliance. I know his disposition--I have had proofs
of yours: nor dare I trust you in the presence of each other. If it will
be any satisfaction to you, Sir Henry may go; and if he be unsuccessful
in his mission, you shall have full liberty to search any, or every
part of the isle, except the spot where Ferrand is."

Harland thought the restriction unjust; but the expressive eye of Sir
Henry checked the impetuous sally of his impatience.

"The anxiety I feel for the recovery of our Louise," said Sir Henry,
addressing him, "can be exceeded, Harland, by none but your own: and for
the permission offered me of accompanying the messengers, I accept it
with thankfulness. You, Harland, will remain with the Marchioness till
my return; when if I be unsuccessful, we will proceed on a further
search."

The brow of Harland was still contracted: a darkened passion rolled over
his soul: his eye glanced to the Governor, who was conferring with the
Marchioness and the Captain. Sir Henry read the tumult of his mind, and,
drawing him aside, endeavoured to reconcile him to the Governor's
commands.

"And what," answered Harland vehemently, "must Louise think? To be
rescued from the hand of villany--perhaps of dishonour, by the hand of a
brother, or menials, whilst he who nearly claims the name of Husband
stands by like a dastard, in the moment of danger! By Heavens, Sir
Henry, it must not--shall not be!"

"It must, Harland," said Sir Henry. "In this respect the Governor's will
is law: and Louise is too just--too generous, to impute to you as a
slight, that which proceeds from necessity. Then cheer up, man; in a few
hours, I trust, all will be well."

A servant now entered, to inform Sir Henry the attendants were waiting.
He shook Harland by the hand, and, taking a hasty leave, set out for the
Governor's seat.


END OF VOLUME I.

Printed by C. Spilsbury, Angel-Court, Snowhill.




ERRATA IN VOL. I.

 _Page_ 37, _Line_ 1, _for_ "dis," _read_ his.
        45,       16, _for_ "to,"  _read_ by.
       140,       18, _for_ "for," _read_ or.
       209,        1, _for_ "Booyers," _read_ Booyers's.
       218,        5, _dele_ "and."
       237,       11, _for_ "In," _read_ On.


ERRATA IN VOL. II.

 _Page_ 75, _Line_ 8, _dele_ "me."
        77,       15, _read_ "idea of a mother."


ERRATA IN VOL. III.

 _Page_ 2, _Line_ 19, _for_ "of," _read_ with.
      130,        15, _for_ "the," _read_ this.
      206,        14, _for_ "them," _read_ him.
      226,        17, _dele_ "with."




SUBSCRIBERS NAMES.

 Addison, Mr.
 Ashby, Mr. R. 2 copies
 Ashby, Mrs.
 Ashby, Mr. H.
 Ansell, Mr.
 Austin, Mr.
 Ashley, Mrs.
 Allen, Mr. J.

 Barde, Comte de
 Burdon, Mr.
 Brooks, Mrs.
 Battey, I. Esq.
 Brooksbank, T. Esq.
 Bisshop, Mrs.
 Bennett, Miss
 Ball, C. Esq.
 Ball, C. jun. Esq.
 Ball, Mr.
 Bayley, I. Esq.
 Best, Miss
 Book-Club, Norwich
 Beckwith, Mrs.
 Browne, J. Esq.
 Barret, R, Esq.
 Bryant, Mr. J.
 Barker, Esq.
 Barton, J. Esq.
 Betts, Mr. A.

 Cox, Mrs.
 Cramer, J. Esq.
 Cramer, Mrs.
 Calendar, Mrs.
 Clerke, A. Esq.
 Cramer, F. Esq.
 Calkin, Mr. J.
 Cobham, Mr.
 Chaplain, Miss
 Clarke, Mr.
 Crowe, Mr.
 Colman, Mr. T.
 Carr, J. Esq.

 Dryden, Sir Ed. Bart.
 Dickenson, Mr.
 Durand, F. Esq.
 Dillon, I. Esq.
 Docksey, Mr.
 Day, Miss
 Day, ----, Esq.
 Dixon, J. Esq.
 Deane, Mr.
 Davis, R. Esq.
 Dawson, Mr.

 Evans, C. Ju. Esq.
 Edwards, Mrs.

 Fountain, B. Esq.
 Fabre, L. Esq.
 Fraser, Miss
 Fountain, Mrs.
 Fish, Mr.
 Fisin, J. Esq.
 Field, Mrs.
 Fitzclarence, Miss
 Freeman, Mr.
 Fisher, Mrs.
 Forster, Mrs.
 Fuller, Mrs.

 Goodwin, E. Esq.
 Griffith, ----, Esq.
 Grimshaw, Mr.
 Griesbach, Mr.
 Goodman, J. Esq.
 Gilbert, Miss

 Headfort, Marchioness
 Hullah, T. Esq.
 Hullah, R. Esq.
 Hardwick, Miss
 Hartshorne, Mrs.
 Horth, J. Esq.
 Hulme, Ardern, Esq.
 Hammond, G. Esq.
 Harper, Mr.
 Hodds, Mr.
 Hunnock, Mr.
 Hogarth, D. Esq.
 Howes, Miss
 Harmer, Mr.
 Heath, Mr.
 Henry, Mr.
 Hickson, Mr.

 Kerrison, Mrs.
 Kingsbury, Miss
 King, Mr.
 King, Mrs.

 Lindley, Mr. R.
 Lycett, Mr. J.
 Lowrey, Mrs.
 Laurence, Mrs. G.
 Lane, Mr.
 Long, Miss

 Mapleson, Mr.
 Mayer, Mr. C.
 Moralt, Mr.
 Mathey, ----, Esq.
 Mortimer, ----, Esq.
 Macdonald, Mr.
 Meers, Mrs.
 Mackie, Mrs.
 Makenzie, Mrs.
 Mackie, Mr. W. A.
 Morris, ----, Esq.
 Mason, Mr.
 Miller, W. Esq.
 Marsdon, Mr.
 Marshall, Mr.

 Neate, Mr. C.
 Norie, Miss
 Norris, Miss
 Newman, Mr.
 Nichols, J. Esq.
 Norton, Mr.

 Orton, Mr. J.
 Osborn, J. Esq.

 Perceval, Viscountess
 Palgrave, W. jun. Esq.
 Powell, Mr.
 Persse, ----, Esq.
 Pradine, ----, Esq.
 Penrice, T. Esq.
 Penrice, J. Esq.
 Penrice, Mr. T.
 Penrice, Miss
 Pattison, Mr.
 Palmer, Mrs.
 Penton, Mr.
 Pearce, Miss
 Powell, Mr. W.
 Proctor, Mr.
 Parker, Mr.
 Pymar, J. Esq.

 Rubichon, ----, Esq.
 Robinson, ----, Esq.
 Roberts, Mr.
 Robinson, Mrs.
 Rucker, Mrs.
 Rawlings, T. Esq.
 Rawlings, Mr.
 Richards, Mr. D.
 Rogerson, Mrs.
 Russel, Mr.
 Riches, Mr.
 Rix, Mrs.
 Roberts, Mrs.

 Spencer, Rt. Hon. Lady E.
 Spencer, Lord Charles
 Spencer, Right Hon. J.
 Smart, Mrs.
 Sharpe, Mr. W.
 Smart, Mr. G. 2 copies
 Smart, Mr. H.
 Sapio, A. Esq.
 Sapio, L. W. Esq. 2 copies
 Shirewell, M. Esq.
 Slater, W. Esq.
 Solliers, N. Esq.
 Stanger, Mrs.
 Slater, Miss
 Smith, Miss E.
 Simpson, D. Esq.
 Stables, Major
 Smart, Mr. T.
 Stuart, Miss
 Seamons, Mr. J.
 Smith, G. Esq.
 Stafford, Mrs.
 Saunders, Mr. C.
 Sutton, Mr. T.
 Scott, Miss
 Smith, Mrs.
 Sherrington, Mr.

 Tibbs, Miss
 Tressilian, Miss
 Templeman, J. Esq.
 Turner, Mr.
 Turnbull, Mr.
 Taylor, J. Esq.
 Turner, Mr.
 Thompson, Mrs. 12 copies
 Todd, Mr.
 Turner, Mr. G.
 Tyler, Mrs.

 Vaudreuil, Comtesse de

 Watkins, Mr.
 Wood, Mr.
 White, J. Esq.
 Wall, G. A. Esq.
 Williams, ----, Esq.
 West, H. Esq.
 Wyche, Mrs.
 Wilson, Mrs.
 Ward, Mr.
 Willcocks, Mr.
 Watts, Mr.

 Yart, C. Esq.
 Young, Mrs.

Project Gutenberg's The Mysterious Wanderer; Vol. II, by Sophia Reeve

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Mysterious Wanderer; Vol. II

Author: Sophia Reeve

Release Date: December 12, 2010 [EBook #34629]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MYSTERIOUS WANDERER; VOL. II ***




Produced by Mark C. Orton, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)









                     THE MYSTERIOUS WANDERER.

                             A NOVEL:

                          BY SOPHIA REEVE.


    IN THREE VOLUMES.

    Dedicated, by Permission,

    _TO THE RIGHT HON. LADY ELIZABETH SPENCER._

    VOL. II.

    LONDON:

    PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY C. PILSBURY, ANGEL-COURT,
    SNOW-HILL;

    AND SOLD BY RICHARDSON AND SON, ROYAL-EXCHANGE;
    J. HIGHLEY, FLEET-STREET; AND DIDIER AND TEBBETT
    ST. JAMES'S-STREET.

    1807.




THE MYSTERIOUS WANDERER.




CHAPTER I.


Sir Henry entertained not the least doubt of its being Ferrand who had
taken Louise; nor, from his general character, but that he would
endeavour to retain her, though in open defiance to the Governor's
command. That he was devoid of principle or honour, he had given an
indubitable proof, in his intended assassination of Harland; nor would
the affair, Sir Henry apprehended, yet end without an effusion of blood.
The courage of Sir Henry was cool but constant: an injury offered to
himself, the benevolence of his disposition would induce him rather to
pardon than resent; but this outrage to a sister he sincerely loved
affected him more keenly; and he determined, should Ferrand prove the
aggressor, to hazard, or even lose his life, to effect her liberation.
With his mind absorbed in a labyrinth of conjectures, and plans for his
procedure, he arrived at the Governor's country residence, and, on
inquiring for Ferrand, was shown into a library.

The East-Indian received him with a constrained civility; which,
however, ceased on learning the purport of his visit: and, in answer to
Sir Henry's demand, if his sister were there? he haughtily replied, he
was not answerable to any one for his conduct, nor would he be
questioned like a school-boy, or dictated to!

"It is not my intention, Sir," said Sir Henry loftily, "to dictate to
you; for my question, if you refuse to answer it, your servants, I doubt
not, will give the information I want: if not, I shall proceed to the
executive part of my commission."

Ferrand bit his lip, and, stamping with passion, exclaimed, "What
farther insults am I to receive? I have been rejected by a proud menial;
my love contemned; insulted by a rival; reproved for my just vengeance,
and treated as a prisoner!--and now--on what authority is the finger of
suspicion pointed at me? Search the fleet; you may, perhaps, find her
with some of her gallant countrymen!"

As he uttered the last sentence, he flung from the room, leaving Sir
Henry to proceed as he should think proper. Sir Henry was not long in
determining: he summoned the attendants, and, showing the Governor's
order, demanded to be admitted into every apartment. But Louise was not
to be found; and Sir Henry at last was persuaded she was not in the
power of Ferrand. The suspicion too that she might have been torn away
by some of the French officers who daily visited the Marchioness, added
to his perplexity. Had Ferrand, he thought, been guilty, he would rather
have braved the action; but, on the contrary, he appeared wholly
actuated by rage at his restriction.

Uncertain how to act, or where to proceed to recover Louise, he returned
to the Marchioness's, where the impatient Harland had unwillingly
remained. His countenance told the success of his commission; and
scarcely could his tongue confirm it, ere Harland exclaimed--"I knew
it--I knew it! Fool that I was to yield to the command of an interested
dotard, and idly lose the moments which may have teemed with danger to
her. But I will find her, though hell and earth combine to hide her from
me!"

He rushed out of the house, followed by Sir Henry, who asked which way
he proposed to direct his course?--"The island is before me," answered
Harland distractedly, "nor will I leave a single spot unsearched!"

Sir Henry mentioned the suspicion to which Ferrand had given rise, and
proposed requesting of the Governor that an inquiry might be made
through the fleets. Harland eagerly agreed to the measure; to which the
Governor as readily consented. Commissioners were accordingly deputed to
the several vessels, whilst Harland and Sir Henry, after vainly
searching the town, directed their course to the surrounding
plantations: but disappointment still attended them; the lovely fugitive
was no where to be discovered, though the most liberal rewards were
offered to those who could give intelligence respecting her.

For four days they continued their search, scarcely allowing themselves
the rest and refreshment nature required, when, to add to their
distress, they were informed the fleet was ready to sail, and only
waited for a favourable wind.

"God of Heaven prevent it!" exclaimed Harland, "for if Louise be not
found, I can sooner forfeit my commission, my honour, nay my life, than
lose her! What can be done, Sir Henry? Which way can we go?"

"Chance, or rather Providence, George," answered Sir Henry dejectedly,
"must direct us. Though the unfortunate girl I am afraid is too well
secreted to be discovered by any means we can use."

"Drive me not mad, Sir Henry, by the supposition," said Harland; "rather
encourage me with hopes, though delusive ones, than tear my heart by
such a truth."

"Alas, Harland," answered Sir Henry, "I would encourage hope in you, but
it is dead in my own bosom. Louise, I am afraid, is irrecoverably lost."

"I must not, will not lose her," cried the frantic Harland. "Ferrand,
the villain Ferrand, too surely has her in his power! But I will
instantly go to the grove, despite of his uncle's prohibition, and force
the truth from him."

He turned into a path which conducted to the Governor's seat, and Sir
Henry, after a moment's hesitation, followed him. "I will go with you,
Harland," he said; "if Louise be secreted at the Grove, my assistance
may be requisite; and the Governor, in that respect, I doubt not, will
pardon our transgressing the bounds he has prescribed. If she be not, my
presence will be equally necessary, as your passion may otherwise hurry
you into too great excesses."

They were here interrupted by the appearance of a skirmish in an
adjoining enclosure; and, on their nearer approach, beheld an old negro
defending himself with a stake against four others who were armed. The
odds were too great to demand a moment's hesitation how to act: they
hastened to his rescue, and, after a slight contest, compelled their
opponents to retreat. Sir Henry then directed his attention to the old
man, who had fallen to the ground apparently lifeless.

"The poor wretch, I believe, is dying," said Harland, as he assisted Sir
Henry to raise him, "and here no assistance can be had." Sir Henry
supported him against his knee. The negro faintly opened his eyes, and
regarded them with a wild surprise, which, as recollection returned,
gradually settled to a look of stern ferocity.

"How can we remove him?" said Sir Henry, "To leave him thus is
impossible."

"To take him with us is equally impossible," answered Harland,
impatiently, "and the day, Corbet, wears apace."

"Yet cannot I leave him to perish," said Sir Henry. "Try, my good
fellow, if you can walk or stand."

"Let me die where I am," answered the negro sullenly.

"Leave him--leave him, Sir Henry," exclaimed Harland; "Louise is of more
consequence than a worthless runaway slave, for such I am certain he is;
and to her, I think, a brother's hand ought to be extended."

"And shall be, Harland," said Sir Henry, with emotion. "Yet, as a man,
is this slave my brother, and to him shall my hand be extended also. I
feel the weight of his afflictions, the misery of his life passed in
slavery; and, with him, could curse the hand that first forged chains
for a fellow-creature!--A few minutes, and he may be better; and we will
then prosecute our search for my unfortunate Louise."

During this speech the old negro had raised himself from the knee of Sir
Henry, and grasped his arm, with that anxious confidence the unhappy
only can feel when relieved by the hand of benevolence; each word struck
as a chord on his heart, and told him he was supported by a
friend.--"Seek you Louise de St. Ursule?" he hesitatingly asked. The
quick ear of Harland caught the sound, and, springing toward him, he
demanded if he knew aught of Louise? "I do," answered the slave, with
reserve, "and if this European seek her, will direct him to her."

"Tell me this instant," said Harland; "on your life I charge you!"

"You may take it, if you please," said the negro coolly, "and afterward
find her if you can. I am a slave, and, as you said, a runaway! If I
discover the European woman to you, in return, perhaps, you would
deliver me to a merciless master, to expire beneath the whip."

Harland deserved not the supposition; cruelty formed no part of his
character, though truly the child of pride. Unused to entreat, he had
demanded the information he would not have regretted half his fortune to
have obtained. The answer of the slave stung him to the heart; and,
though Louise was at stake, he would have retorted with the wildest
acrimony, had not Sir Henry prevented him, by saying to the slave--"If
you be the means of restoring Louise to us, I promise to procure your
pardon, if the interest of the Governor can effect it; and your liberty,
if your owner will dispose of you."

The slave half rose, looked wistfully in the face of Sir Henry: the name
of liberty sounded sweetly on his ear, and made his heart beat with
unwonted velocity. Yet a momentary doubt shot across his brain. Mankind
had ever been his enemy; could he then give credit to the flattering
promise?--The countenance of Sir Henry beamed with philanthropy and
truth; suspicion vanished; and, rising from the ground, he cried--"I
will believe you.--Pursue the path you are in, and I will conduct you to
her."

"You forget your late accident," said Sir Henry; "let me assist you."

"I am, I believe," said the old man, "more capable of walking than you.
Slavery has inured me to fatigue. Neither am I materially hurt. I was
exhausted when you came to my assistance, and stunned by the last blow I
received. But your timely interposition saved my life, and freely now
shall you command it."

He conducted them, by private paths, to a plantation near Ferrand Grove;
in which, after some time, he pointed out a small cottage, so concealed
by the foliage that it might have escaped the eyes of a casual
observer.--"I can proceed no farther," he said, "without danger of being
seen and retaken, which would inevitably bring me to a merciless death.
There is the cottage I yester-evening fled from; and there is Louise de
St. Ursule confined."

Harland heard no more, but rushed through a gateway which opened to the
cottage. The soft voice of Louise, broken by a plaintive sob, reached
his ear; and, a moment after, that of Ferrand, speaking in a threatening
tone. With a resistless force, the maddened effort of the moment, he
burst the door, and the next instant brought him to the presence of
Louise and his rival.

Ferrand started at the unexpected apparition, but drew his sword,
perceiving the point of Harland's already at his breast; whilst Louise,
with a scream of mingled joy and terror, attempted to throw herself into
the protecting arms of her lover; but was withheld by one of Ferrand's
attendants, who, recalling to mind his master's assailant, endeavoured
to force her to the interior part of the cottage. In this he was
prevented by Sir Henry, who had followed Harland, and who now sprung to
the rescue of his sister. A few minutes would have decided the conflict
in favour of the adventurers, but the domestics, alarmed by the tumult
and the screams of Louise, hastened to the assistance of their master.
They were, therefore, obliged to act on the defensive; and, to add to
their distress, Louise, after vainly struggling for emancipation, sunk
senseless at the feet of Ferrand. Another moment and she had been torn
from their sight; when Ferrand, thrown off his guard by her fall,
received a wound from Harland: he staggered--and the servant, who was
raising the fair cause of the contention, extended his arm to save his
master. It was a moment granted by fortune. Quick as lightning Sir Henry
tore her from him, and, defended by Harland, conveyed her out of the
cottage. By the time they had passed the gate, Ferrand, however, was
sufficiently recovered to order the servants, who had officiously
attended to him, to pursue them, and force Louise back. They hastened to
execute his commands, but the narrowness of the path prevented their
passing to impede the flight of the fugitives. The sword of Harland was
opposed to those who first presented themselves; but fearing they would
force their way through the underwood, and thus surround them, he
hastily bade Sir Henry--save Louise! Sir Henry, accordingly, after an
anxious but vain look for the old negro, and desiring the Lieutenant to
follow him, entered the nearly trackless path by which they had been
conducted to the cottage.

Louise soon revived; and, after a few incoherent exclamations of joy,
and thankfulness at her deliverance, anxiously inquired after Harland.
"I hope in a few minutes he will join us," answered Sir Henry. But
scarcely were the words pronounced when they heard a violent tumult, and
immediately after distinguished the voice of Ferrand, commanding his
people to pursue Louise. His anxiety for George was instantly absorbed
in apprehension for the safety of his sister, and, supporting her on his
arm, they again fled.

Night soon concealed them from farther danger, and the hapless Harland
retook possession of their imaginations. The timid Louise, with tearful
eyes, endeavoured to pierce through the gloom, or entreated Sir Henry to
stop and listen if perchance his distant footfall, or voice, could be
heard. But all was silent--and busy fancy quickly portrayed him as
sinking beneath the vengeance of his furious rival. Sir Henry's thoughts
did not present a more cheerful picture; he entertained not a doubt but
Ferrand had overpowered the Lieutenant; and an idea of assassination
presented itself to his imagination, which the ferocious character of
the East-Indian but too justly authorised. Could he have left Louise, he
would instantly have retraced his way to the cottage, but no friendly
roof presented itself which might have afforded shelter for the lovely
maid; he had therefore no alternative but to proceed, though every nerve
trembling with anxiety to return and aid the unfortunate Lieutenant.

It was nearly the hour of midnight when they arrived at the
Marchioness's, where Louise had again the satisfaction of being folded
to the bosom of her generous benefactress. An inquiry after Harland
followed the embrace. The tears of Louise informed her some accident had
happened; and, on her applying to Sir Henry for an explanation, he gave
a concise relation of the evening's adventures; at the same time
declaring his intention of instantly returning. The Marchioness could
not oppose his determination, but applied herself to console Louise, who
appeared nearly overpowered by her emotions.

Sir Henry advanced to her, and tenderly taking her hand--"Indulge not
this immoderate grief, my dear girl, which can only add to our present
distress. Summon your fortitude. George may be wounded--he may be
overpowered; or, which is most probable, he may have missed his way in
the plantations. I yesterday, my dear girl, despaired of ever beholding
you again; yet, when least expected, Providence conducted us to you.
Hope, then, for the best. I will proceed, with the utmost expedition, to
his assistance, if he need it: and if our fears are prophetic--but you
must not indulge the idea.--Harland shall live, and live to bless my
Louise!"

The enthusiasm with which Sir Henry pronounced the last sentence,
imparted a hope to the heart of Louise, he dared not himself indulge.
She faintly smiled through her tears: Sir Henry again repeated--"Hope
for the best!" and was hastening out of the room, when a loud peal at
the outward door arrested his steps, and, the minute after, Harland,
with breathless impatience, rushed into the room, followed by the old
Negro.

"My dearest, loveliest girl!" he exclaimed, clasping the delighted
Louise to his bosom; "am I again so blessed as to behold you?--Nor will
I part from you again, my Louise, till the Church's sanction has placed
it beyond the power of aught but death to separate us!"

"But you are wounded, Harland," said the Marchioness anxiously; "let me
procure you some assistance."

Harland, indeed, had forgotten his wounds, and the joy Louise at first
experienced on seeing him, prevented her observing his pallid
countenance, or the blood which had stained his clothes. She now with
trembling lips joined in the Marchioness's request, that a surgeon might
be sent for. Harland complied,--"though the hurts I have received," he
continued, "are not such as to require a moment's consideration. But the
dastardly villain, Sir Henry, who inflicted them, shall yet feel the
power of my arm!"

The last words were uttered with a vehemence which declared Ferrand not
only the man alluded to, but that he had been guilty of some atrocity
they were as yet unacquainted with.

"Ah, Harland!" sighed Louise, "if you have any regard for my peace,
resign all thoughts of revenge, in which perhaps yourself, not Ferrand,
might become the victim!"

"In every other circumstance of my life," said Harland, "Louise shall be
my monitor; but I cannot tamely pass by the injuries I have received. To
Sir Henry I am indebted for your preservation--to yonder slave for my
own!--Not two hours since he saved me from the assassin's hand!"

The countenance of Louise assumed a paler hue at this relation.--"Yonder
slave!" she faintly repeated.--"It is the villain who forced me to the
cottage of Ferrand."

The old slave, who had hitherto remained near the door, now
advanced:--"I am, it is true, Madam," he said, "the man who, by the
commands of an imperious master, took you from your friends: yet am I
not deserving the name of villain! The slave--but not the man, was
guilty of the action!--By preserving you from dishonour, I incurred the
usage which drove me a naked fugitive from my ancient home. These
Europeans saved me from a cruel death, and promised the richest reward a
wretched slave could receive, if I would conduct them to you. I did
more--and let the action prove a Negro's soul to be susceptible of
gratitude!"

Louise blushed her recantation of the sentiments she had entertained
respecting the slave. "You have raised my curiosity," said the
Marchioness, "to the highest degree: but as I am certain my Louise, and
you, my young friends, are greatly in need of repose; I will repress it
till the morning, when I shall expect to have it gratified by an ample
relation of every incident."

Louise thankfully acceded to the Marchioness's proposal of retiring, and
again took possession of her former apartment; whither one of the
Marchioness's daughters accompanied her, that no farther attempt might
be made, without the knowledge of the family or the means of assistance.
Harland likewise, after a surgeon had attended him, retired, as did Sir
Henry, to the apartments which had been prepared for them, and where
repose, the sweetest they had long experienced, rewarded them for the
toils and anxieties of the day.

It was late in the morning when they assembled at the breakfast-table;
where the Captain and Frederick, having been previously informed of the
successful termination of Sir Henry and Harland's search, attended them.
Mutual compliments and congratulations passed, and after breakfast the
Marchioness reminded them of the last night's arrangement, and Louise
began her relation, as follows:

"I had not, my dear Madam, retired many minutes to my apartment, on the
night I was forced away, when Rachel, (who has chiefly attended on me
since our arrival in St. Helena) after apologizing for the liberty she
was going to take, with a well-counterfeited appearance of concern,
began to relate a tale of a distressed family, highly deserving, she
said, of compassion and relief, who wished to apply for your
beneficence, but wanted a friend to speak for them: and, knowing my
influence, she had given her word, she said, to ask my assistance.

"I inquired more particularly into the nature of their distress; and she
so insensibly engaged my attention by her interesting but artful tale,
that the time passed unheeded till long after the usual hour of repose.
I was first recalled to a sense of my improper conduct, by a light
footstep on the outside of my apartment. Unsuspicious of danger, I was
hastening to see who it was, and to apologize, if by my heedlessness I
had disturbed any part of the family; when two men entered the room, and
before I could call for help, Rachel threw a handkerchief over my head,
which she tied so securely across my mouth, that the power of speech was
entirely prevented. My struggles were equally inefficacious: my hands
and feet were bound, and I was then carried silently down the stairs,
and conveyed to the cottage of Ferrand; where freeing me from my bonds,
they left me to reflections painful in the highest degree. The idea that
they designed to murder me, which had taken possession of my mind on our
first entrance into the plantation, then gave place to fears far better
founded, and I dreaded the moment which would bring Ferrand to my sight.

"An old female soon attended, to show me to a chamber: I endeavoured to
interest her in my favour, and to prevail on her to aid me in returning
to my friends. But she heard me with indifference, spoke in praise of
Ferrand, who, she said, would visit me in the evening, and, advising me
to seek repose, again left me. Thankful, and somewhat easier by hearing
Ferrand was not under the same roof with me, I determined to take
advantage of the respite allowed, and if possible effect my escape. I
hastened to the window--it was secured by strong iron bars, and the door
had been locked and bolted on the outside by my female gaoler.
Disappointed in the faint hope I entertained of liberty, I yielded to a
momentary despair, and, bursting into tears, threw myself on the bed.
Reflection, however, soon showed me the inutility of my grief: many
hours were to pass before Ferrand would come to the cottage; I therefore
endeavoured to calm my agitation, that I might, if possible, meet him
with firmness and resolution. Then again I dreaded the uncontrolled
licence of his passions, or that Harland or my brother, learning who had
taken me away, might be involved in a quarrel, which would terminate in
the loss of their lives.

"It was noon when my attendant entered with refreshments; and a smile, I
thought truly demoniacal, played on her features as she again launched
out in praise of her master, and the happy life I might lead if I were
but compliant with his wishes. I listened to her in silence, as my
spirits were too dejected to permit my answering her; and she left me, I
believe highly satisfied with her own eloquence. The afternoon passed
comfortless; evening arrived; and I was forced from reflections on a
more deserving lover, to the presence of Ferrand. He accosted me with an
exultation and assurance that implied he thought the conquest over me
completely gained, by the success of his stratagem: he did not,
therefore, patiently listen to my reproaches and animadversions on his
conduct; but, after a violent paroxysm of passion, reminded me he was
then the master of my fate. He was willing, he said, to join his destiny
with mine by a lawful union; but, if I rejected his offer, I must answer
to myself for any measures he might pursue. I could not conceal the
terror occasioned by this declaration; the courage I at first exerted
forsook me, and tears and entreaties were my only defence. The next day,
and the next, passed with little variation; Ferrand sometimes strove to
soothe, but more often to terrify me to compliance. The third evening a
violent bustle in the lower rooms raised my hopes that my brother and
Harland had gained intelligence of my prison, and were come to my
deliverance. With a throbbing heart I listened to catch the welcome
sound of their voices; but the tumult gradually ceased; all became
quiet; and I was obliged to resign myself to a state rendered more
horrid by the short-lived but sanguine hope I had indulged of
liberation.

"I did not see Ferrand again till late the next day; when he informed me
the fleets had sailed, and that Harland and my friends had left the
island. I cannot attempt to describe the agony of mind I endured on
receiving this intelligence. He renewed his offer of immediate marriage,
but I turned from him with horror. My sorrow renewed his anger; he
repeated his threats--declared he would grant me only till the morning
to determine whether I would accept his honourable proposal, or submit
to a state of infamy; and was proceeding in his invectives, when the
door was burst from its hinges, and the entrance of my Harland and Sir
Henry proved the falsity of Ferrand's report, and changed my sorrow to
joy."




CHAPTER II.


Louise ceased speaking, and Harland, who had with difficulty restrained
his impatience during the latter part of her relation, exclaimed--"And
think you, my Louise, I will not chastise the villain for his
conduct?--I should be undeserving the affection you have honoured me
with to let it pass unpunished!"

The Marchioness smiled.--"At present, Harland, we will think of your
marriage with Louise. You have sufficiently proved your knight-errantry
by her rescue: and as for Ferrand, I think he is punished enough, in the
loss of his mistress, for the steps he took to obtain her. Had you, my
young friend, been the rejected lover, I do not think your passions
would have been more under control than his have been."

Harland looked confused. The Captain returned the Marchioness's smile.
"Harland, I believe, Madam, feels the force of the words you have
uttered: and let their plain truth, George, recommend them to your
consideration. Your character for courage has been long established: but
that courage, if it lead you to revenge, degenerates to assassination;
nor could I then regard you in a more respectable light than the hired
Bravo! Too much blood has already been shed. Leave Ferrand then to the
dictate of his own conscience for what he has done, and yield to the
happiness which awaits you. Our stay here may be limited to a few hours,
and it is highly necessary your union with Mademoiselle St. Ursule
should take place before we part with the Marchioness."

The latter part of this speech reconciled George to its preceding
reproof; and he earnestly entreated the marriage might take place that
very evening.

"To-morrow morning it shall," said the Marchioness; "but some little
preparation is necessary: our worthy friend the Governor is not yet
acquainted with our Louise's return: and one piece of justice yet
remains to be performed: Rachel ought not, nor shall she escape
punishment, for her assistance toward the destruction of Louise."

The lovely girl here interceded for the guilty Rachel; who, she said,
had certainly been bribed by Ferrand to the action. "That very
consideration," the Marchioness replied, "added to her guilt; as it
proved her ingratitude to a generous mistress." And as Sir Henry and his
friends sided with the Marchioness, Louise was obliged to submit.

Rachel was therefore ordered to appear; but, after repeated summonses,
was declared to have absconded! On the return of Louise she indeed
became certain the part she had taken in betraying her to Ferrand must
be discovered; and, to avoid punishment, she secretly conveyed her
clothes to the house of a friend, and early in the morning departed for
the cottage. The Marchioness was therefore necessitated to leave her
punishment to the future vigilance and justice of the Governor; to whom
a servant was dispatched to acquaint him with Sir Henry and Harland's
success: and composure being once more restored, that lady reminded
Harland his evening adventures were yet to be related. George bowed, and
immediately began:

"I guarded the pass from the cottage, my dear Madam, till my Louise was
out of sight; when I endeavoured also to retreat, and should have
succeeded, had not Ferrand (recovered from the effects of our late
rencounter) come from the cottage. Perceiving my sweet girl was escaped,
he turned the effects of his rage against me, who did not patiently
receive the onset; and a far more furious contest than the former
commenced. Blinded by rage against my principal adversary, I too much
disregarded the number and power of his servants, who then found means
to surround me, and treacherously assailed me behind. In consequence of
this I was overpowered and dragged to the ground. 'Secure him!' was all
Ferrand uttered, as he darted past me, with some of his servants, to
pursue Sir Henry. His orders, however, were punctually obeyed by those
who remained, and I was in an instant effectually secured.

"You, my friends, who so well know my irritable temper, may judge of my
rage at the restriction and indignity I endured. The only power I
retained was that of speech, and I vented my passion in vain defiance
and imprecations against Ferrand. After some time I was carried into the
cottage; and thence again removed to a rude cave or grot in a retired
part of the plantation: a place apparently formed for murder and the
blackest deeds; and where I was left on a few rushes to exhaust the
residue of my rage.

"Some time elapsed, when Ferrand presented himself, with a light in one
hand, his sword in the other; fury and madness were depicted in his
countenance, and reflected with additional force by the red glare of the
torch.

"'You--scoundrel, at least, have not escaped me!' he vociferated as he
advanced, 'and shall now pay for the slights and indignities I have
endured! For you, Louise rejected me; and has placed a serpent in my
heart: but some of its stings shall yet reach her in the person of her
minion!'

"My satisfaction at the certainty of Louise's escape, was absorbed in
returning fury at this address. I struggled to shake off my fetters;
demanded to be free; and that our pretensions might be ultimately
decided by the sword!

"'They shall be!' he repeated with increased vehemence. His hand was
raised to plunge his sword into my bosom, when the old slave darted from
the entrance, and, before its point could reach me, arrested his arm! A
scuffle ensued: but Ferrand was by no means able to contend with his
slave; who soon wrested the sword from him.--

"'Villain! Degenerate wretch!' he exclaimed, nearly choked with rage,
'thy life shall answer for this interference!'

"'My life!' repeated the old man, grasping him firmly by the collar and
shaking him. 'Thine is now completely in my power!--and here may I
revenge the blows, the usage, thou hast unjustly dealt me: but I scorn
to embrue my hands in thy blood. Begone!--and thank the mercy of thy
slave, thou art not now grovelling in the dust!'

"He cast him to the entrance, and Ferrand, who had shrunk with terror
when in the hands of the stern negro, hastened toward the cottage,
calling for help, and vociferating the names of his servants. The old
man snatched up the torch, which lay burning on the ground, and, placing
it in the earth, hastily applied himself to extricate me from the
fetters with which I had been loaded. Fully sensible of the inevitable
death he had preserved me from, I endeavoured to express the gratitude
which swelled in my heart, and promised not only to join with Sir Henry
in procuring his liberty, but to add such a recompense as should evince
my sense of the obligation I owed him.

"'To Sir Henry, and the European woman,' he replied, 'you are indebted
for your preservation. From what I over-heard, I learned you were the
friend of one, the destined husband of the other: and, for their sakes,
was I coming to liberate you, when the haughty Ferrand passed me: and
let the danger you have been in teach you this lesson--never to scorn a
fellow-creature, or despise his afflictions, because he is beneath you.
The lowest weed you carelessly trample on, is not without its virtues;
and is equally the work of the Creator as the loftiest pine of the
forest. As men, we all are equal: nor are the circumstances of life so
certain, but the monarch may be indebted for his existence to the hand
of a slave!' He raised me from the ground; and, as a sentiment of shame
arose for the cause of this reproach, I accepted his proffered arm in
silence, for my limbs were at first too benumbed to admit of my walking
without assistance. The voice of Ferrand, directing his servants as he
again approached the recess, informed us not a moment was to be lost;
and my companion, dashing out the torch, with hasty steps conducted me
into the plantation. By paths well known to himself, he guided me across
the tangled wilderness to the high road, where he first broke silence,
by informing me we were out of danger. We, however, continued our way
with the utmost expedition, as my soul burned with impatience to be
convinced that my beloved Louise was not only freed from the power of
Ferrand, but that she was also safe under the protection of her amiable
benefactress."

The comments on this account of Harland, were interrupted by the arrival
of the Governor, who, after congratulating him on the recovery of
Louise, likewise requested to be informed of the particulars respecting
her disappearance and restoration. Louise and Harland therefore briefly
recapitulated the foregoing events; Harland only enlarging on those
circumstances wherein the old slave was concerned. The Governor listened
with attention to their relations, and with visible concern and
impatience to what had passed in the cave. When Harland concluded, he
appeared for some moments absorbed in reflection, and then desired to
see the slave. Sir Henry and Harland looked anxiously at each other, and
would have interceded in behalf of the old man, but were prevented by
his entrance; their apprehensions on his account, however, ceased, as
the Governor said--

"So, Carlo--I find you have been a principal actor in the adventures of
our European friends. You have undoubtedly acted right as a man, but not
with the obedience and respect due from a slave to his owner. I am,
however, so well pleased with the termination of this affair, I rather
wish to reward than punish you. For your preservation of this gentleman,
I therefore pardon your desertion: for your forbearance on the life of
my Ferrand, I give you your liberty!"

"Liberty--liberty!" shouted the old man; "oh, bless my ears with a
repetition of the word! Say again that I am free, and I will indeed
believe you!"

"From this moment," repeated the Governor, "I declare you free; and
these your friends are witnesses of that declaration."

Carlo sunk at the feet of his generous master; embraced his knees; and,
whilst the tears of gratitude rolled down his cheeks, in broken accents
breathed his thanks. The Governor appeared affected--

"At how easy a price," he cried, addressing the Captain, "might man,
would he reflect, dispense happiness on a fellow-creature. I declare,
till this moment I never felt the irresistible power of nature, or how
nearly allied the free man was to the slave. Rise, Carlo; I will make it
my business to provide for you in a manner more suitable to your
deserts."

"That," said Harland, "shall be my care. The obligations I am under to
Carlo, can never be repaid; but I will instantly assign over to him,
property to the value of two thousand pounds, as an acknowledgment for
the services he has rendered me, and as a peace-offering for the
sentiments I once expressed; and if he will go with me to England, I
will settle him to his satisfaction, either in a mercantile or
agricultural situation."

Carlo rose from the feet of his late master, and grasping Harland's arm,
said energetically--"I thank you!--my heart feels your bounty, but I
cannot speak its sentiments. Not to England, however, do I wish to go.
Give me half the wealth you have named, and let me return to Coromandel;
the land where first I drew my breath; the land whence, ere fourteen
revolving seasons had marked my life, I was basely torn from freedom,
friends, and kindred!--but I beg your pardon; in this moment when my
soul is overflowing with joy--with gratitude--I ought not to intrude a
tale of misery, or vex your ears with woes which no longer exist."

"I have often, Carlo," said the Governor, "thought you superior to a
common slave; but the duties of my situation, and my own more immediate
concerns, prevented my ever questioning you on the subject; but as the
late events have introduced you more particularly to our notice, these
your friends, I doubt not, will excuse my inquiring by what accident you
were forced into slavery?"

"Forced indeed!" ejaculated Carlo. "For till then I was gay and free as
the breeze which lightly fanned my native groves.--I had one day, Sir,
been with some of my youthful companions, laving my limbs in the
expanded ocean, when a party of European sailors came to the spot where
we were: they found us unarmed--an easy prey; and, seizing us in spite
of resistance, forced us on board their vessel, and brought us to this
island, where we were consigned to slavery! It is true, my chains for
years were formed with flowers. The late Governor became my master; and
when memory brought to mind the past, or painted the distraction of my
parents for my loss--if I madly reprobated the hand that tore me from
them, or sunk in despondence, wept, and sighed for liberty; he would
deign to soothe my sorrows; on hearing my tale, he did more: he promised
to restore me to my friends and country! But alas--grief for the loss
of her offspring, had closed the number of my mother's days; my father
sought his child, to redeem him--and perished in the search!

"My generous benefactor, on being informed of these events, declared he
would in future supply the place of the parents I had lost; I should be
the child of his adoption, and as such he would provide for me. I was
accordingly instructed in those sciences by which Europeans claim
superiority over ruder climes; and never had he cause to regret his
beneficence. At his death, he said, I should be free and affluent; nay,
would then have given me liberty, but that he feared to lose me. Ah! he
knew not, that the strongest chains which can be forged, are those of
gratitude and affection!

"His death happened too suddenly for him to fulfil his intentions in my
favour; and his sordid relations, who had long regarded me with jealous
envy, sold me with the rest of his slaves!

"Then indeed I first experienced the horrors of slavery: those who had
courted my acquaintance in the days of prosperity, when it was no longer
in my power to render them services, ceased to know me: my friendship
was no longer sought--I was disregarded--forgotten! Till then, hope had
cheered my days and shed her influence on my slumbers; she then deserted
me--and each succeeding day was marked with misery!

"Many, indeed, have been my afflictions: nor do I count the loss of an
humble, but faithful companion, who was rudely torn from my arms, the
least I have endured. After twenty years absence, I was once more
brought to St. Helena, and bought, my noble master, by you. But far
different was I from what I had been in the days of my youth: affliction
had gradually marked my brow with gloom, and deadened the milder virtues
of my heart! I was appointed by you, to attend on your nephew; who--but
he had never experienced woe; how then could he judge of that, he
wantonly inflicted on others!

"By him I was commanded, with his favourite valet, to force Mademoiselle
de St. Ursule to the cottage; which was easily effected with the
assistance of Rachel. The sight of her, I could not but regard as a
victim, rekindled a spark of pity in my bosom: that she disliked your
nephew and loved another, I had discovered in his moments of passion; I
thought of the wife who had been forced from me: a pang shot through my
heart, and I wished if possible to save her: but Marguerite too well
knew the duties of her office, to entrust the keys of her chamber in my
possession.

"The offers of your nephew were rejected by that lady; and on the third
day of her confinement, he vowed, by force or stratagem, to effect his
purpose. The sibyl of his pleasures proposed drugs, which she
accordingly prepared, and mixed in a beverage for the lovely prisoner.
The indignation of my soul could then be no longer restrained. I dashed
the vessel to the floor, and, forgetting I was his slave, reproved him
for his ungenerous proceedings!

"What followed, I scarcely need relate: he struck me, and, summoning my
fellow slaves, ordered me to be punished--even to death! But indignation
gave me strength, I broke from them, and sought refuge among the rocks.
My enraged master, as I yester-evening learned, joined himself in the
fruitless pursuit, he ordered after me.

"The remembrance of the lady whom I wished to save, returned with the
morning; I thought I might perhaps be able to effect her deliverance, or
at least inform her friends where she was; and for that purpose was,
toward the close of the day, retracing my steps to the plantation which
surrounds the cottage, and where I thought I might lie concealed, when I
was suddenly attacked by four of my late companions, and but for the
assistance of these gentlemen, should there have resigned my being!
They, however, preserved me, and with you, have this day restored me to
life--to hope--to happiness! My faithful Mella bears her bonds in my
native land, and thither would I return, that she too may be free; and
with me hourly offer up her prayers for those, whose beneficence had
unbound the chains of our slavery!"

"And you shall return, Carlo," said the Marchioness, "if I have any
influence with these gentlemen. I am going to Pondicherry; and you shall
return with me. The present of your generous young friend will be
sufficient to establish you; and under the protection of my husband, the
Governor, you yet may experience the happiness you so truly deserve."

The Governor and Harland readily agreed to the Marchioness's
arrangement; and Carlo retired, anticipating with impatience the hour
which would restore him to his native land, and his long-lost Mella.

The Governor soon after took his leave, as did the Captain, who, with
Frederick and Sir Henry, returned on board: Harland only remaining at
the Marchioness's.

At last the hour so ardently wished for arrived, which was to unite the
lovely Louise to Harland. Sir Henry and his friends attended: the
Governor likewise honoured the ceremony with his presence, and by his
generous behaviour endeavoured to atone for his former restriction on
George, which the well-known disposition of his nephew (who had shut
himself up in gloomy discontent at the Grove) rendered highly necessary.
A numerous company had been invited to pass the day at the
Marchioness's, not only in honour of Louise's nuptials, but also as a
farewell visit, the next day being appointed for their embarkation. The
thoughts of separation, however, were superseded by the pleasure which
prevailed, and animated every countenance.

In the course of the evening, Sir Henry, who by the friendship of the
Captain had procured a draft on a merchant at Pondicherry, for a
thousand pounds, sought Carlo, and, taking him into a private room,
presented him with it, saying--"I must beg your acceptance, Carlo, of
this mark of my friendship. I believe I possess a place in your esteem,
and I wish you not to forget me. With part of this, procure the liberty
of your Mella; and may the rest add to the comforts of your age."

"Forget you!" repeated Carlo emphatically. "Never, Sir Henry! You were
the first who spoke peace to my wounded spirit.--Yes, from this I will
indeed redeem my Mella; and her presence shall prove a perpetual memento
of your friendship. A few hours, Sir Henry, and I shall behold you no
more: here, then, take an old man's blessing; and may you experience
happiness equal to that you have conferred on me!"

Sir Henry shook his hand, and Carlo, sinking on his knee, pressed that
of his youthful benefactor to his bosom and his lips, and, repeating his
blessing, hastily withdrew. Sir Henry then returned to the Captain; who
soon after took his final leave of the amiable Marchioness and the
Governor.

The next morning Sir Henry and Frederick attended to conduct Harland and
his bride on board. The painful moment of separation was arrived: the
Marchioness and her daughters endeavoured to appear cheerful and
collected; but the respectful and affectionate behaviour of Louise had
too much endeared her to them to permit them to part without regret; nor
could the obtrusive tear be restrained.

"We may meet again, my dear girl!" said the Marchioness, as the
signal-gun warned them to depart. Harland gently forced his Louise from
the arms of her early friends, and, placing her in the barge, they were
soon conveyed on board. The signal was given to weigh--Louise faintly
murmured the name of her benefactress; who with her daughters still
sighed a blessing and adieu, as the unfurled sails swelled with the
breeze which conveyed them from the romantic cliffs of St. Helena.




CHAPTER III.


The mind of Harland now enjoyed a serenity hitherto unknown; the
mildness of Louise, the increasing knowledge of her virtues, whilst they
added to his love, softened the harshness of his manners: and, from
experiencing the sweets arising from beneficence, he was taught to
regard the happiness of others, as conducive to his own.

It was one of those evenings when the serenity of the heavens shed its
influence on mankind, and harmonized the mind to happiness, that the
Captain, with his youthful companions, after long enjoying the tranquil
beauties of the declining day, retired to his cabin. The careful
mariner, freed for a time from toil, reclined in easy repose on the
deck, or carrolled his humble ditty, as he watched the different
vessels, of which he might be deemed in part the safeguard. A transient
peace possessed every bosom: when Harland, after a considerable pause,
addressing his Louise, said--"I have often designed, my dear girl, to
request some account of the occurrences attending your childhood; of
which I have hitherto had a very imperfect knowledge: the present moment
is favourable for the relation, which I think would prove equally
gratifying to Sir Henry and our friends."

"There is not any thing in the account, Harland," replied Louise, "to
repay your attention in the hearing: a monastic life affords but little
variety."--However, as Sir Henry and Frederick joined in the request,
she without farther hesitation complied.

"Of the manner in which I was left at the gate of the Convent, you have
already, Harland, been informed. I was found there in the morning by the
portress, and by her carried to the mother St. Claire, the venerable
Abbess. The meanness of my clothes by no means accorded with the
valuable miniature tied round my neck; but rather tended, as the worthy
Abbess said, to show that my parents were actuated by shame, not
poverty. She, however, hesitated not a moment to take me in, and, after
an ineffectual search to discover the authors of my being, determined to
rear me, and dedicate my life me to the God who had placed me under her
protection.

"I was accordingly given to the care of a lay sister, who faithfully
discharged her trust; and as my infant mind expanded, the Abbess became
each day more partial to me. The friendship of the mother St. Claire was
followed by the real or pretended love of the other inmates of the
Convent, and I was soon the avowed favourite of all.

"Amongst those, however, who evinced a sincere regard for me, was the
sister Françoise; between whom, and the venerable Abbess, my early
affection was divided. Under their more immediate care, I was instructed
in every useful and ornamental branch of education; and their
approbation and praise were the rewards of my diligence. Thus passed my
earlier days, unclouded with a sorrow; sister Françoise and the Abbess
were all the world to me, nor knew I of one beyond the walls of the
Convent.

"The frequent visits, however, paid to the other children by their
friends, could not but lead me, at length, to reflect on the difference
of my lot. No father, no mother, ever inquired for me; and the first
sigh that ever swelled my bosom, was for those relations, whom fate
prohibited me from ever knowing."

A half-stifled sigh escaped Sir Henry; which was gently returned by
Louise, who, after a moment's pause, again proceeded.

"Sister Françoise soon observed, and learned the cause of my dejection.
'You have no acknowledged parents, Louise,' she said; 'but I will be
your mother, and you shall love me as a daughter.' She burst into tears;
I kissed them off her cheek as she embraced me, and, pleased with the
idea of mother, soon regained my cheerfulness. From that time, I became
the nearly inseparable companion of sister Françoise: I addressed her
by the name of mother, I believed her such, and fully did her tenderness
authorise the title.

"It was not till I was fourteen, that mother St. Claire put into my
possession the miniature found with me, and informed me of the
circumstance which had placed me under her protection, and of her
intentions that I should take the veil. The latter intelligence,
repugnant as it was to my inclinations, affected me less than the
knowledge of my orphan state. 'And is not sister Françoise then my
mother?' I would have asked; but tears impeded my utterance; and,
throwing my arms round the neck of St. Claire, I wept in silence. She
tenderly embraced me; and when the violence of my grief was abated,
exhorted me to resignation to the state that Providence had assigned me;
and explained the reasons which rendered a life of seclusion necessary
to one, who without friends could only look for infamy and destruction
in the world.

"'Yet do not, dear mother,' I exclaimed, 'force me to be a nun--at
least, not yet!'

"'Force you, my child!' repeated the venerable woman, 'never! Forced
vows cannot be sincere; and sincere indeed ought those to be, which are
offered to your God! You yet are young: but two years hence, if I be in
existence, I hope to receive you at the altar. I have pointed out the
dangers which would attend you, in a world you are a stranger to; you
know the peaceful happiness, the security which reign within these
walls: let both be the subject of your reflections; and too well am I
assured of the sense, the goodness of heart my girl possesses, to doubt
her cheerful acquiescence in the lot assigned her."

"Never before had my heart refused accordance to the sentiments or
wishes of this my earliest friend; but the fascinating picture, the
young Victoire, and Julie de Valois, (for three years my intimate
companions) had often painted of the world, had first engaged my
attention by its novelty, then taught me to wish for those pleasures,
with which I thought it abounded. The world,--however, its
gaieties--all were absorbed in the circumstance of my deserted infancy;
and I left the worthy Abbess, overwhelmed with the only real sorrow I
had ever known.

"Instead of going to my beloved mother, as I had hitherto termed her, I
sought the gloomy solitude of the cloister; and was indulging in an
unrestrained flow of tears, when the approach of two nuns caused me to
retreat into an adjoining chapel. They seated themselves at the
entrance, nor could I then have re-passed without discovery; which would
have exposed me to a severe reproof from sister Brigide (one of them),
for my intrusion into a place, sacred to the sisterhood. They, however,
continued their discourse without the slightest suspicion of unhallowed
ears, and I soon found sister Françoise was the subject of their
conversation.

"'I, who have been an inmate here these six-and-thirty years,' said
sister Brigide, 'am less regarded by the superannuated mother St.
Claire; I may, however, one day be head of this convent; then woe betide
some, whom I shall not name.'

"'How long is it since she took the veil?' asked the other, whom, by her
voice I discovered to be a sister lately professed. 'Fourteen years,'
answered Brigide: 'just after the Abbess's favourite Louise was left
here; and much I mistake, if Françoise be not really her mother!'

"'Her great partiality to the child,' answered sister Marie, 'may
certainly justify the suspicion.'

"'Suspicion'--repeated Brigide; 'I have proofs--facts, indubitable ones!
I know more of sister Françoise than she thinks.'

"The curiosity of Marie thus raised, induced her to press Brigide to an
explanation; whilst I scarcely respired lest a syllable of the important
intelligence should escape me.

"'It is now about fifteen years,' said Brigide, 'since sister Françoise,
then Mademoiselle de Colline, was a reigning belle; though, for my part,
I never could discover the surprising beauty they say she possessed:
being, however, the youngest daughter, she was designed for a monastic
life; but was by nature more inclined to vows of love than religion. By
her artful coquetries she at last fascinated a young Englishman who was
on his travels, and who demanded her of her father in marriage. Monsieur
de Colline refused him, he being an heretic; and the gallant apparently
ceased his addresses; but after a lapse of some time, he was detected
one morning by her father, descending from her chamber window. Justly
enraged at the depravity of his daughter and the young fellow, Monsieur
de Colline seized his pistols, and as the lover was scaling the
garden-wall, a brace of bullets brought him to the earth!

"'Not satisfied with this victim to his injured honour, he hastened to
the apartment of his daughter, taxed her with her crime, and was
proceeding to tell her the vengeance he had taken, when the guilty
wretch fell into fits, and was discovered to be in a state of pregnancy!

"'Her sisters, who before had been inclined to pity her, then abandoned
her to the fury of her father; and happy had it been, if she had then
expiated her sin by the loss of life; but an old servant, who had been
privy to her amour, preserved her from the effects of his passion. She
was, however, by his order, confined in an obscure part of the Chateau,
and treated with the greatest rigour; but, instead of bewailing her
fault, she only deplored the loss of her lover! There, with the
assistance of her old confidant, she was delivered of an infant: its sex
I never learned, or what became of it; but about that time Louise was
found at the gates of the convent!'

"'Oh, a clear case--a clear case!' exclaimed sister Marie. 'But, with
all the search they say St. Claire caused to be made for the parents, do
not you think it strange these circumstances did not lead her to them?'

"'Not at all,' replied Brigide. 'The events I have related were
transacted in too secret a manner to let suspicion even point a finger
at the De Collines; nor do I believe there is another in the Convent,
except the Abbess, who is acquainted with these particulars respecting
her; nor should I have known them, but for the old confidant I
mentioned; who, about five years since, became a lay sister, and died
here. She too was very fond of Louise: and a few words she one day
inadvertently uttered, raised my suspicion there was more concerning
sister Françoise than I knew; and I determined never to rest till I had
discovered what it was; and by a thousand questions, and indeed by
pretending I was in the confidence of Françoise, I learned what I have
now related.'--

"Sufficient indeed," interrupted Sir Henry, starting from his seat, and
pacing the cabin, "to blast her character; but not to draw the tear of
pity, the unhappy--injured Françoise deserved! Not even a convent, I
find, can screen the unfortunate from malice and detraction!--But
proceed, my dear Louise; I meant not to interrupt you."

"And did you, my brother," asked Louise, "ever before hear the
misfortunes of Françoise?"

"I learned them from herself, Louise."

"From herself, Sir Henry! When did you know her?"

"Not till after you, my sister, left the convent. And here let me
endeavour to do justice to her character. To the lover sister Brigide
mentioned, Françoise, on her father's refusal, was privately united:
and, by the assistance of the old servant, who witnessed their marriage,
he was secretly admitted into the house. This intercourse had continued
several months, when her father saw, and shot the unhappy husband; who
was soon after found nearly lifeless, by some peasants, and by them
conveyed to the house of a surgeon.

"In Monsieur de Colline's subsequent interview with Françoise, she
avowed her marriage; but he either did not--or would not believe her. He
caused her to be confined, and fearing, if she persisted in her
declaration of marriage, he could not force her to take the veil; he not
only informed her, her lover was dead, but, to further his purpose, that
her infant likewise expired soon after its birth. By him it was indeed
doomed to expiate, by its death, the supposed fault of its wretched
mother: but Providence preserved it for a better fate.

"Françoise, however--her heart nearly broken by the double loss of her
husband and child--gladly availed herself of the fate designed her, to
escape the reproaches of her father, and the taunts of her sisters, and
threw herself into the convent of St. Ursule; where she took the veil at
the very time her husband, recovered of his wound, was searching the
country to discover her: but Monsieur de Colline had taken his measures
too effectually; and at last, supposing her dead, he returned to
England. At the old man's death, however, the letters the unhappy Henry
had addressed to Françoise, and to him, were discovered by his
Confessor; as likewise the Monk who had married them; and as her husband
was then living, a dispensation was obtained, and sister Françoise,
freed from her vows, returned with my father to England."

"Your father! O God, my brother!" exclaimed Louise, clasping her hands.
"Tell me, I entreat you, if Françoise de Colline was really my mother!"

Sir Henry appeared confused--distressed: but at last said--"Seek not, my
dear girl, the knowledge which cannot add to your happiness, but would
plunge me still deeper in the gulf of misery. Your mother lives: and you
shall one day know her. The time, alas! will too soon arrive, when every
midnight deed must be brought to light: but, till then--let not the hand
of Louise level an unnecessary shaft at my bosom!"

Louise could urge no farther; her anxiety to be satisfied on this
subject, yielded to the visible concern and agitation her question had
occasioned Sir Henry. She sighed, and a pause ensued, from which they
were relieved by the Captain requesting her to proceed in her narrative.

"Little more passed," continued Louise, "between sister Brigide and
Marie, than what I have related. The latter mentioned the miniature
found with me, as a proof that must instantly confirm the truth of
Brigide's allegation; but Brigide ridiculed the idea. She had seen the
miniature, she said, it was not of Françoise: but Monsieur de Colline
and his daughter were both too cunning, she added, to leave any proof
with me, which must discover them; the miniature was a trinket, by
which if ever they chose to reclaim me, they could; but a ring or a seal
would have answered the purpose equally the same.--They were here
interrupted by the arrival of another nun, with whom they proceeded to
the refectory; whilst I, freed from the danger of detection, hastened to
the cell of sister Françoise, and, throwing myself into her arms,
exclaimed--'I am--I am your child; oh, do not attempt to deceive me, but
say that you are indeed my mother!'

"Sister Françoise was at first alarmed at the wildness of my address,
but, on my relating the discoveries of the morning, her agitation far
exceeded my own.--'No--no, Louise,' she sighed, 'you are not my child:
would to heaven that you were: but I am indeed widowed--and childless!'

"She wrung her hands, and, bursting into tears, sunk on her humble
couch. I mingled my tears with hers; I strove to soothe her; yet still
urged my claim to maternal acknowledgment. She referred me to the
miniature:--'The resemblance you bear to it, Louise,' she said, 'must
convince you it was done for a parent; but no likeness can be traced in
it to me. Cease then to wring my soul by forcing to remembrance, scenes
long since passed. I love you, Louise; but utterly disclaim all kindred
with your blood. Be satisfied then with my affection, nor ever again
renew this subject to me or any one!'

"Thus prohibited, I forbore to speak, but sighed in secret over the
mystery of my birth; my mind by degrees lost its serenity, and I was
apprehended to be in a decline; when the Marchioness de Valois came to
the Convent. The friendship of her lovely daughters had before
introduced me to her notice; she regarded me with an eye of pity, and
proposed my going with her to Montpellier. The worthy St. Claire readily
consented; and taking an affectionate leave of her and sister Françoise,
for the first time in my life, I re-passed the gates of the Convent.

"What were my sentiments of the various objects I beheld, I shall leave
to your own conceptions; all indeed was wonder, joy, and amazement! The
amiable Marchioness, pleased with my inquiries and remarks, pointed out
and explained whatever she thought worthy my notice or regard. She did
more: she traced the grief which oppressed me to its source, and wiped
the tear of dejection from my cheek. She taught me to look forward with
hope, and to rely with confidence on the wisdom of Providence, which, in
its own time, would develope the mystery that distressed me. The
friendship of this amiable woman, the paternal behaviour of the Marquis,
who joined us at Montpellier, and the amusements of that celebrated
place, to me so novel, soon restored my wonted cheerfulness and health;
and, after an absence of three months, I returned to the Convent; where
the increased infirmities of mother St. Claire, and a fever with which
sister Françoise was seized, called forth all my tenderness and
attention.

"They were repaid by the restoration of this mother of my affection, and
the mild serenity of the venerable Abbess; who, unalarmed, awaited the
hour of dissolution, with a smile of confidence and peace, that
anticipated the reward of a life passed in piety and benevolence. Her
fondness for me appeared daily to increase; but, to my great surprise
and satisfaction, she no longer urged my taking the vows, or even
expressed a wish for my engaging in a monastic life.

"Thus passed a twelvemonth, happy as those I had formerly known; when
the Marchioness again came to the Convent, to take Victoire and Julie
finally from under the care of St. Claire.

"It was then that she declared her intentions in my favour; to which St.
Claire added--'For this reason, my child, I have long ceased importuning
you to enter on your probation. You dislike the life of a nun, and, how
much soever I wish for your society, I prefer your happiness and real
advantage to my own gratification. Here you would be secure from the
storms and cares of life; but, from what I have learned respecting
sister Brigide, who will undoubtedly be my successor, you could hope for
nothing more, save the peace arising from internal religion; and even
that, the mother of a sisterhood has it in her power to disturb, though
not to destroy. With me, you might experience the happiness a life of
religion is calculated to afford; but see, my child,' and she turned a
glass whose last sands were running out, 'my hour is nearly expired! To
the Marchioness then I resign you.--Let the religion, the precepts I
have inculcated, the example I have given you, prove the guides of your
conduct.--Transfer the obedience you have shown me, to her; and may
every happiness attend you!'

"Tears of affection and gratitude were my only answer; I could not
speak, but, sinking at her feet, hid my face on her knees; the world I
had sighed for, faded on my imagination before this instance of her
love; and the thoughts of leaving her far outweighed the life of liberty
she had awarded me.

"Orders, however, were given for my departure; nor did St. Claire
provide for me as the orphan of her charity, but as the child of her
tenderest regard. To the former marks of her munificence, she added many
valuable presents. 'They will remind you of my lessons, Louise,' she
said, 'even in the assemblies of the gay. I shall feel the loss of your
attentions, but sister Françoise will supply your place; and remember,
my child, whilst I have life, you shall be welcomed here with open
arms!'

"All was soon prepared, and receiving her final blessing, with that of
sister Françoise, I followed the Marchioness to her carriage.

"We proceeded to Paris, where a continued round of amusements for some
time banished reflection, and the remembrance of the worthy St. Claire.
Pleasure, however, at length lost its attractions, and only in the
friendship of the Marchioness, and a few select families, I found that
real satisfaction I had in vain expected in the more brilliant, but
dissipated circles of the fashionable world.

"Twelve months had elapsed, since I quitted the Convent; I had
repeatedly written to St. Claire and sister Françoise, but never
received an answer: and as we were then going to the Marquis's country
seat, the Marchioness consented that I should cross the country to
Rennes. It was late in the evening when I arrived at the Convent;
painfully anticipating the intelligence of St. Claire's death: there,
instead of the benevolent mild old sister Marthe, who first succoured my
helpless infancy, a lay sister I had never seen, attended the summons to
the gate, and demanded my business?

"'Is mother St. Claire still living?' I tremulously asked.

"'She has been dead eleven months,' replied the portress; 'and mother
St. Brigide is now the head of this Convent. If you wish to speak with
her, send in your name and business, and I will endeavour to gain you
admittance.'

"'Oh no,' I exclaimed--'not with her: but tell sister Françoise, her
child--her Louise, wishes to see her.'

"'Louise--sister Françoise!' she repeated with a frown. 'There is no
such sister within these walls.'

"'O God!' I cried. 'Is she too dead?'

"'I have positive orders,' said the portress, 'not to answer any
questions, or take in any message from you.'--She closed the grate: and
Jacques hearing what passed, of his own accord drove to an hotel, where
I passed the night in mournful reflections, and the next day, with an
oppressed heart, rejoined the Marchioness at Rohan.

"No occurrence happened from that time, till nearly a twelvemonth after,
when the Count de Dreux declared himself my admirer. He was nearly
fifty--vain, self-sufficient, and affected; but likewise rich; and, for
the last consideration, the Marquis advised my encouragement of his
addresses: to the Marchioness, however, I avowed my real sentiments
respecting him; and she gave him a gentle, but positive refusal. At the
same time she undeceived him respecting my birth, by which he had
supposed me nearly related to her; and that consideration, I believe,
reconciled him to her rejection; but though he ceased to regard me as
longer worthy his honourable addresses, he still pursued me, as an
object of desire.

"At that time the Marquis was unexpectedly appointed Governor of
Pondicherry; for which place he was ordered immediately to depart.

"The Marchioness accompanied him to L'Orient, whither I should likewise
have attended her with Victoire and Julie, but indisposition obliged me
to remain at the Chateau. The opportunity was too favourable to the
projects of the Count, to be neglected; he wrote me a passionate letter,
with a brilliant offer of settlements, jewels, &c.: of which I did not
deign to take the least notice. My silence produced a second, on the
supposition that he had not been sufficiently liberal: and he sent a
carte blanche. To evince my contempt, I tore the letters, and returned
them in a cover; and, as I was surrounded by faithful servants, and two
days elapsed without hearing of him, I apprehended no farther
molestation or danger.

"On the morning of the third, however, a courier, covered with dust,
and apparently fatigued, arrived at the Chateau. He came, he said, from
L'Orient, where the Marchioness, who had been overturned in her
carriage, was in the most imminent danger. He brought a letter, as he
pretended, from her femme-de-chambre, which repeated the information,
and begged my immediate presence, as Victoire and Julie were in the
greatest affliction.

"Alarmed at this account of my beloved benefactress, I gave orders for a
chaise to be instantly prepared; and, without an idea occurring that the
tale might be fictitious, assisted my maid to pack up a change of
apparel. The chaise was soon ready, and I set out for L'Orient, attended
by Janette, the false courier, and two old servants, who, on hearing
the accident which had happened, entreated they might accompany me. We
proceeded with great expedition, and were within a few miles of
L'Orient, when, on passing a thicket, two men on horseback suddenly
approached; one stopped the horses, whilst the other, presenting a
pistol to Jacques, threatened to shoot him if he offered to proceed. The
faithful Grégoire, perceiving the situation of his fellow-servant, would
have advanced to his assistance, but was withheld by the pretended
messenger; who seized him by the collar, and a scuffle immediately
ensued. A carriage then approached, from which the Count himself
alighted; and, opening the door of my chaise, he attempted to force me
out. Vain would have been my resistance, had not a sailor, attracted I
believe by my screams, darted from the thicket, and with a bludgeon
struck the Count to the ground.

"What directly followed, I cannot say, as I fainted; but, as Janette
afterwards informed me, the men who first stopped us, seeing their
master fall, sprung to defend him, and old Jacques finding himself at
liberty, without regarding the sailor who had so gallantly come to our
assistance, or Grégoire, drove off with the utmost velocity.--When I
recovered, we were far from the scene of contention; and as Jacques,
equally alarmed as myself, still urged the speed of his horses, we soon
arrived at L'Orient.

"I found my beloved benefactress well, but dejected from the departure
of the Marquis, who had sailed the day before. On relating my tale, she
expressed her satisfaction at my escape from the Count; and, convinced
the greatest care was necessary to guard me from his machinations,
determined in future not to trust me from her own immediate protection.

"Soon after this, Grégoire arrived, and informed us that the men who
first stopped us, prepared to pursue me; but were remanded by the valet,
on the supposition that the Count was dead.--After some time, however,
he showed signs of returning life and sense, and whilst they were
replacing him in his carriage, to re-convey him to a seat he possessed
near the spot, (whither he had proposed to carry me), the sailor, who
had at first been secured, made his escape again into the thicket. As
for Grégoire, he was no longer regarded either in a hostile or amicable
manner, and accordingly remounted his horse, and followed us to
L'Orient.

"The next day we returned to the Chateau, at which place the Marchioness
proposed remaining, till the vessel preparing to take the family, should
be ready to sail. A month of tranquillity ensued, when we were surprised
by a visit from the Count. The obstacles he had met with, it appeared,
so far from abating, had added to his desire of obtaining me; but,
convinced of the impracticability of either seducing, or forcing me from
the protection of the Marchioness, and being, he said, unable to exist
without me, he again demanded my hand in marriage. The Marchioness would
have urged my accedence to an establishment so brilliant; but, on
declaring my utter dislike to him, she yielded, and again gave him a
positive refusal.

"The Count, mortified and enraged at my repeated rejections, vowed never
to quit the pursuit, till he had, either by honourable or other means,
subdued my obduracy. Secure, however, in the friendship of the
Marchioness, I equally disregarded his entreaties and threats; and the
vessel appointed for us, being fully prepared, and the fleet ready to
sail, we bade adieu to France; and I was thus happily freed from the
importunities of a troublesome lover."

"Thanks, my dear Louise," said Harland, "for your interesting tale;
which, though unmarked with any extraordinary occurrences, proves you to
have been truly the child of Providence."

"The child of Providence indeed," repeated Sir Henry, "nor can I
sufficiently admire the wisdom of that Power, who directs the most
trivial of our actions. Little did I think, when I hastened to your
rescue, it was to that of the sister, of whom I was then in search. Your
fainting, and the confusion arising from the unlucky blow I gave the
Count, prevented me from observing you; and on that nobleman's partial
recovery, I was glad to elude the vigilance of his servants, and seek
the shelter the luxurious foliage of the thicket afforded."

"And was it you, my brother," said Louise, in a voice of grateful
mildness, "who then preserved me from the Count? But what accident
conducted you to so solitary a spot? and why in a garb so unsuitable to
your station and character?"

"Mrs. Harland has anticipated the question, I was in part going to ask
Sir Henry," said the Captain; "and as you have raised my curiosity, if
you will acquaint us with the particulars of your peregrination in
France, which you mentioned when at St. Helena, it will add to the
pleasure I have received in hearing the relation of your sister?"

Sir Henry readily complied--"although I have little to recite," he said,
"except an action I must ever remember with regret, as a weakness for
which one so long inured to sorrow as myself, can offer no excuse."




CHAPTER IV.


"When at St. Helena, I believe I informed you I went from Cardigan to
Havre-de-Grace, as a common sailor; I there determined to seek a sister,
endeared to me by misfortune as well as the ties of blood; and
accordingly directed my steps to Rennes; my whole wealth consisting in
the clothes I wore, which were those I obtained by exchange from a lad
near Harwich, and the wages arising from my voyage. This little stock,
however, was insufficient to bear my expenses, and the last day I
travelled without money or food; but hope impelled me forward, and on my
arrival at Rennes, I inquired my way to the Convent of St. Ursule. My
appearance there was too mean to gain me access to the Abbess, or even
procure me a civil answer to the question I asked, whether Louise were
living, and residing in the Convent? The portress disclaimed all
knowledge of the circumstance--or the child I alluded to, and finally
closed the grate to my face.

"Thus repulsed, I slowly turned from the gate, and directed my steps to
an humble _auberge_, where I threw myself on a bench in the yard, in a
state of mind painfully depressed. The hope I had indulged to a most
sanguine degree of finding Louise, and being acknowledged by her as a
brother, and which had cheered me on my journey, and soothed me in my
moments of sadness, was thus completely destroyed; nor had I then the
least clue to guide me to her.

"Was my sister dead? I asked myself--or had I been deceived?

"The question led to events long since past; busy memory, in vivid
colours, brought to view each circumstance which had progressively
involved me in a state of wretchedness, and made me feel with maddening
exaggeration a fate I thought unmerited. I was indeed driven by a power
I could not oppose, from kindred, friends, and fortune--a wanderer on a
foreign shore, without even the means of procuring a single meal to
satisfy the wants of nature.--The only prospect before me, was beggary!

"The idea was too much--my passions, long restrained, with a violence
not to be controlled, o'erburst the bounds of reason; franticly I called
for death; cursed the hour that gave me to the arms of my parents; and
bade the earth open and bury me for ever in her bosom!

"What inconsistencies I was guilty of, I cannot say; I was unconscious
of observation--of all around me!--and such ascendancy did my madness
at last attain, that I thought I heard the voice of my father in the
breeze, chiding me for living in a world, where I had lost every
prospect of happiness.

"The conceit led to self-destruction; and suicide instantly presented
itself to my fevered imagination, as affording the oblivion I coveted.
Wildly my eye glanced to every object, in search of some instrument
wherewith to perpetrate my design; but none presented itself. A well,
however, met my view, and, starting from my seat, I ran with an
intention of precipitating myself into it. Already had I reached the
brink, when my arm was arrested, with a violence, which not only
prevented my design, but forced me some paces back from the place of
destruction.

"The shock in some degree recalled my recollection, and, raising my
eyes, I beheld an old _religieux_, to whose timely interposition I was
indebted for preservation. The tear started to his eye, and his right
hand trembled as he grasped my arm; he gently raised his other toward
heaven, and regarded me with such a look, as struck me to the the heart;
and reproved me more forcibly, than language could have done, for my
temerity in daring to rush unsummoned into the presence of my Maker!

"The tempest of my mind ceased; but was succeeded by a horror and
remorse, I cannot attempt to describe. I passively permitted the worthy
Monk to conduct me to the seat I had quitted; where, placing himself
beside me, he hesitatingly asked, what had induced me to attempt
self-destruction?

"I would have offered an extenuation of my madness; but my words were
incoherent. He stopped me--'Suicide, my son, can admit of no
excuse!--Misfortune and sorrow attend us all, from the monarch to the
lowest mendicant; but, were the burden ten times heavier than that
inflicted, it is our duty to bear it! I saw you in the street; your
appearance bespoke distress, and I followed, for the purpose of
affording that relief, I thought you merited. The action I have
witnessed here, young man,' he continued with severity, 'I need not
comment on; your own conscience, I trust, will sufficiently speak its
enormity.'

"I could not look up--I dared not meet his penetrating eye: and shame
added an additional pang to sorrow.--He saw the struggle in my bosom,
and pity regained her influence: his voice softened--'Forgive my
harshness, youth; I ought perhaps rather to apply the balm of
consolation to a mind diseased, than by reproaches add to its malady:
but you appear faint, my child;--perhaps for want of sustenance?'--He
anxiously arose, and beckoning the host, desired him to carry some wine
and provisions into a private room; then again addressing me, proffered
his assistance to conduct me into the house.

"A false pride at first made me recoil: but the benevolence which beamed
in his eyes, as he gently drew my hand on his arm, checked the
ungrateful sentiment.

"I attended him to a room, where the humble Jean officiously spread a
table with the little dainties of the larder; but a significant glance
from my entertainer telling him his presence could be dispensed with, he
respectfully bowed and retired. The worthy Monk then pressed me to eat;
filled a glass with wine, and placed it near my plate: but all was
ineffectual; my mind, more exhausted than my body, required that support
he vainly offered to my enfeebled frame. I would in gratitude have
eaten, but nature refused her office. He looked grieved--'Your sorrows,
my son, I believe, are deeper than I at first imagined. Your looks--your
deportment, bespeak you acquainted with fairer scenes in life, as well
as with misfortune. Tell me--am I mistaken?'

"'You are not, Father,' I replied, 'and the action you lately witnessed,
may tell you those misfortunes are neither trivial nor common. I am
indeed the child of misery!'

"'Alas! my son,' he returned with a sigh, 'we view the events of life
through the glass of prejudice. When misfortunes oppress us, we look
through the magnifying end, and think our own afflictions by far the
most superior: and, by the same rule, we reverse the glass to the
distresses of others, and see them in a lessened point of view: still
judging the happiness or misery of the world by our own feelings. Yet,
true it is, that which afflicts you, might by another be disregarded;
and that which would bow another to the grave, you, perhaps, could
support with fortitude! It is the hand of a Power, which cannot err,
that dispenses our portion of good and evil to each according to his
abilities of bearing. Take religion for your staff, my son, and
integrity for your guide, and the misfortunes of the world combined, can
never crush you!'

"'Ah! Father,' I cried, 'resignation is easy in theory, to those who
have only to preach it. Sheltered yourself from misfortune, how can you
judge of that, which drove me a fugitive from hope and happiness?'

"'I can judge,' said he solemnly; 'for I have experienced sorrow; and I
preach--from my practice! Listen to my tale, young man, with attention,
and from my misfortunes learn to bear your own without repining.--

"'Monsieur La Roche, my father, was in his youth clerk to a merchant at
Nantes, and early in life married a woman in circumstances humble as his
own. I was the only fruit of that marriage, my mother dying of a
decline, a few months after my birth. My father, however, did not long
remain in a state of widowhood; for the only daughter of his master, who
had long entertained a partiality for him, inadvertently so far
discovered her sentiments, that he was emboldened to offer secret
addresses; and a private marriage soon after made him the presumptive
heir to his master. The old gentleman, who certainly had expected a more
suitable match for his daughter, was yet too doatingly fond of her, to
refuse the forgiveness she entreated: and the respectful behaviour of
my father to him, and his strict application to business, in a little
time, not only reconciled him to her imprudent choice, but raised my
father so high in his esteem, that he voluntarily took him into
partnership.

"'By my mother-in-law, who had not any children, and this worthy man, I
was ever treated with the greatest tenderness, but in less than five
years, a malignant fever broke out at Nantes, and, amongst its numerous
victims, carried the gentle Madeleine and her sire to the grave; leaving
my father, for the second time, what the world called, an inconsolable
widower. He found himself, however, master of a princely fortune; and,
in less than twelve months, surprised the world, by a third
marriage--and that with the femme-de-chambre of his late wife!

"'From that period I date the commencement of the sorrows and
misfortunes which attended me, till my head was silvered by the hand of
time!

"'Madame La Roche, my new mother-in-law, who far exceeded her
predecessors in personal attractions, soon gained a complete ascendancy
over my father: and as, in the course of three years, she presented him
with as many children, she began to regard me with an eye of jealous
hatred. This showed itself on a variety of occasions, and one day, on my
father honouring me with his notice, a thing rather unusual, she
peremptorily insisted on my being sent to a public academy. My father
yielded, and I was thus banished from home--never to be recalled!

"'At first I rejoiced at being freed from the tyranny of Madame La
Roche; but after passing three years, without once visiting the
habitation of my father, I began to think my lot peculiarly hard; till
the master informed me I was not to return till my education was
completed. This reason satisfied me, and three years more elapsed, when
I was surprised by a visit from Monsieur and Madame La Roche. My father
beheld me without emotion, and, on his wife declaring that my uncouth
appearance would disgrace the family, readily agreed to her proposal of
binding me apprentice to some reputable tradesman. I timidly expressed
my wish of being placed in his counting-house, but was refused by Madame
with a frown; and after telling me I must remain at the academy till
they had fixed on a trade suitable to my genius, they departed.

"'About three weeks after, a chaise was sent for me, in which I was
conveyed to the house of a printer, in the suburbs of Nantes, where I
was immediately settled as an apprentice for seven years.

"'There I endured every mortification, ill nature and arrogance could
inflict; heightened by the comparison of my lot to those of my brothers,
whom I frequently saw, with their mother, in all the pomp of dress and
equipage!

"'Slowly passed the time in my imagination, till I had completed the
term of my servitude: still had I indulged hopes that my father would
receive me into his house, if not as a son, at least as an assistant;
when I determined, by the most circumspect behaviour, to obliterate, if
possible, the unfavourable sentiments he entertained of me. But vain
were my hopes; my mother-in-law's influence overbalanced the weak claim
I had to his regard. When I went to his house, he was not at home, the
servant said, and I was refused admittance. I again went, and was
rudely reprimanded by the menial for being troublesome. I then wrote to
my father, urged my claim of nature, to his notice and protection, and
appealed to his heart, if any part of my conduct had given just cause
for the neglect with which I had been treated? I coveted not his wealth,
I said, but to his affection I felt I had an equal claim with his other
children.

"'This letter was answered by Madame La Roche. She coolly denied the
justness of my claim, by reminding me I had never been regarded as one
of the family: however, as she acknowledged I had some small demand on
their notice, she remitted me a draft for two thousand livres; a sum
sufficient, she said, to establish me respectably: and to my own
diligence I must look for future supplies. My father added a postscript,
to confirm the decree of his wife, and advised my proceeding to Paris,
as a place where industry was most likely to be rewarded.

"'A tear of wounded sensibility forced its way down my cheek, at this
final act and renunciation of my father: I, however, determined to show
my obedience to his will, cruel as it was, and, accordingly, a few days
after receiving my small fortune, set out for Paris, having been
previously refused the liberty of writing to him.

"'On my arrival at Paris, I determined to engage as a journeyman to some
master, till I should meet with a situation to my satisfaction; and not,
by plunging into business without friends or connexions, with so small a
principal, hazard what might terminate in my ruin.

"'With a printer in the Fauxbourg St. Germain, I engaged, and passed
three years in that humble station, when I married an amiable woman, who
declared herself willing to share the frowns or smiles of fortune with
me; and for two years experienced a happiness interrupted only by the
remembrance of my father.

"'A smiling infant crowned our love. Fortune, too, assumed a fairer
aspect. My master retired from business; and, though it required a
larger capital than I possessed, I ventured to take it, relying on my
own application to clear the debt I incurred.

"'But, alas! weak man!--I read not the volume of my fate: I dreaded not
the wretchedness which in that hour of fancied prosperity awaited me!

"'Cheerfully I paid my little fortune into the hands of my master, and
gave him my bond for the residue of the debt. But scarcely had we been
settled in our new habitation a week, when, in the night, I was roused
from a peaceful slumber by the alarm of fire! I instantly awoke my wife,
and, starting from the bed, ran to the staircase,--but, alas! it was in
flames! I then hastened to the window, and called for assistance, but
its situation was too obscure to gain me notice; and my voice was
unheard amidst the noise and confusion which reigned in the street,
where all were assiduous to assist and save an opulent family, whose
house adjoined mine, and where the fire, I believe, originally began. In
this distressing situation, we remained, nearly suffocated with smoke,
till the flames began to appear through the floor of the room:--not
another moment, I found, was to be lost:--I clasped my infant daughter
to my bosom, and, springing on the frame of the window, bade my wife
trust herself to my arms, and, by throwing ourselves into the street,
either be saved or perish together! She approached--the height appalled
her--she drew back--hesitated--the floor gave way, and she sunk to a
grave--horrid as inevitable!

"'The flames raged around me with the maddest fury, and, unable to
withstand their force, I gave a groan of anguish to the fate of my
wretched wife, and threw myself from the window. I fell unnoticed: two
of my ribs and my arm were broken, and my hapless infant killed on the
spot: but oblivion drew her veil over my senses, and for some hours
kindly saved me from the knowledge of my misery. I was at last
discovered; and, as I was afterwards informed, carried to several houses
in the neighbourhood, but no one had charity sufficient to receive me.
I was therefore conveyed to an hospital, where proper means were used
for my restoration; but the last shriek of my wife still vibrated in my
ears: her last look, with all its horrors, still pierced my heart: the
innocent pressure of my infant to my bosom--all combined to tear reason
from her seat. My fractures were healed, and I was removed from the
hospital to a madhouse.'

"The worthy Monk," said Sir Henry, "here paused, whilst a tear unbidden
forced its way from his eye. I attempted not to speak: my faculties,
indeed, were suspended by his tale; and I still regarded him with a look
of silent attention, sufficiently expressive, I believe, of the
commiseration and curiosity I felt, and which had, for the time, wholly
banished my own afflictions from my mind.

"His voice soon regained its wonted tone, when he thus continued the
relation of his misfortunes.

"'It was three years before my senses regained their usual tenour; when
I was permitted to enter on the world to seek subsistence. The accidents
I had met with, I thought might authorise an application to my father. I
accordingly wrote; but he was dead, and his fortune wholly settled on my
brothers and Madame La Roche! She condescended to inform me of these
particulars, and testified her surprise at my application, after the
liberal provision formerly bestowed on me, which, she said, if I had
either squandered or lost, I must answer to myself, as she should by no
means injure her fortune to re-establish mine.

"'I gave a tear to the memory of my father, which, however neglectful he
had been of my welfare, I still held sacred. To my lot of poverty I
submitted with feelings of mingled regret and resignation; and once more
sought employment as a journeyman. But sorrow had robbed me of my
vivacity; my mind had been deranged; some believed it so still; few
cared to trust me; and fewer to employ, or pay me for my labour. At
last, unable to bear the penury which threatened me, I left Paris: and,
after unsuccessful applications for employ, in various places, I was
received on moderate wages by a printer at St. Malo's. I there by
degrees recovered my health and spirits, and served my master with such
attention and diligence, that, at the end of five years, he agreed to
admit me as a partner in his business, allowing me a small share of the
profits, independently of my salary. Here then fortune once more began
to smile, and for four years rewarded my assiduity with success.

"'At that time my master consented to take me into equal partnership;
and I was on the point of marriage with a young lady of small fortune;
when one evening, as I was returning home, I was accosted by a
countrywoman with an infant, who earnestly entreated I would direct her
the road to Rennes. I gave her the information she wanted, but observed
it was too late for her to think of prosecuting her journey; and as she
declared herself a stranger, offered to conduct her to a house of honest
repute, where she might pass the night. She thanked me, and as she
appeared much fatigued, I took the child in my arms and carried it. Some
idle chat with the hostess and herself, when I had seen her accommodated
to her satisfaction, detained me nearly an hour, when I returned home,
little suspecting an action so trivial and innocent, would be the means
of involving me again in trouble.

"'The next day, on visiting my intended bride, I was received with a
reserve I could not account for; thinking, however, some occurrence,
unconnected with me, might have occasioned a dissatisfaction as apparent
as unusual, I concealed my observation of it; but, in the evening, on
repeating my visit, her coldness had so far increased, that I could no
longer refrain from asking an explanation: and was answered, by an
accusation of an illicit connexion with the woman I had the preceding
evening conducted to the auberge. My surprise at this unexpected charge,
she construed into a confirmation of my guilt, and declared her
resolution of instantly breaking off an acquaintance with a man, who had
so wantonly deceived her. In vain I affirmed my innocence; related my
accidental meeting with the woman, and appealed to her evidence for the
truth of my assertion; but, with a look of reproachful triumph, as
detecting my falsehood, she told me, the servant had seen me enter the
auberge with my infant charge and its worthless mother; and on informing
her, she herself went and questioned the woman concerning the nature of
our acquaintance: and her answers, ambiguous as they were, were yet
sufficient to condemn me. That she had at first declared herself a
native of the place; then again, that she was a stranger, and unknown.
That the child was hers--then, that she was only hired to take it from
its mother.--Of its father, she would not give any account, but its
likeness to me sufficiently proved that father to be myself! In vain I
strove to reason--to rally her from an opinion so absurdly founded; she
resented my justification, as an additional insult. Finding the foolish
dispute likely to terminate too seriously, I at last insisted on the
woman being sent for, and made to acknowledge to whom it was, the child
belonged. Antoinette scornfully smiled at what she termed my artful
subterfuge, as the woman, she said, had no doubt received her lesson. I
could not conceal my vexation at this additional charge; but, however,
sent for the peasant. She had left the town: I dispatched a person
after her, on the road to Rennes: but her steps were not to be traced;
and I remained stigmatised as an unprincipled debauchee, by the unjust
suspicions of my mistress, and the tattling hostess.

"'Antoinette truly kept her word, in ceasing to admit of my addresses,
and my master, to whom she was related, incensed at the breaking-off of
the marriage, not only refused to fulfil his intentions in my favour,
but dissolved our partnership, and dismissed me from his service!

"'At that time I entertained not the idea, but subsequent occurrences
induce me to believe, that Antoinette was actuated by other motives
than jealousy, for her conduct; as she soon after accepted the hand of a
man, by far my junior, and in more affluent circumstances.

"'This, however, was but the commencement of my difficulties; for,
whilst I was endeavouring to clear myself to my irritated master, a
person inquired for me. On being admitted, he informed me, that Monsieur
Orfévre, my former master in Paris, was dead; and that on examining his
papers, a bond was found for two thousand livres, due from me, for the
stock unfortunately consumed by fire. That his nephew, who succeeded to
his property, understanding that I was in circumstances sufficiently
affluent to discharge the obligation, had deputed him to receive the
money.

"'The justness of the debt I attempted not to deny; yet, reflecting on
the promise of the deceased, (which I declared), of expunging it, on
account of my misfortune, I hesitated to pay the demand. The officer,
for such he proved to be, coolly answered, if such had been the
intentions of Monsieur Orfévre, he would undoubtedly have mentioned it
in his will, or have destroyed the bond; and on my master saying I was
capable of paying the debt, he immediately arrested me!

"'Thus compelled, I paid the money; which, by dint of the strictest
frugality, I had accumulated, and found myself once more in the world,
poor and friendless! I endeavoured to submit with patience to my lot;
but injudiciously entered into business, without the means of pursuing
it. This was regarded as an avowed opposition to my master, who highly
resented the action; and as his interest and connexions were great, my
exertions were rendered abortive. For two years I struggled for
support--for bread; when my creditors finding me unable to satisfy their
demands, completed my ruin by throwing me into prison.

"'At first the gloomy horrors of the place, the misery of its inmates,
deeply affected my mind, and each hour the sigh of sorrow swelled my
bosom; till religion opened to my soul that source of comfort which can
never fail; my prison lost its horrors, peace shed her gentlest
influence on my slumbers, and marked my days with serenity: my brow lost
its contraction, and my heart expanded, and bowed before the wisdom of
my God! Contentedly I passed the day, in such work as the charity of a
few individuals afforded me; by which means, I not only acquired
sufficient to procure me what comforts my situation would admit of, but
likewise to assist those more helpless than myself.

"'Thus passed fourteen years of my existence, when an English gentleman,
actuated by curiosity, came to the prison. He saw--conversed with me;
and at last inquired on what account I was confined? I told him, and the
years I had been immured. He regarded me, as I spoke, with a look of the
gentlest pity: the half-formed answer hung on his lips, but turning from
me, he hastily left the prison.--In less than an hour, an order came for
my enlargement! Scarcely could I credit the gaoler's assertion, that I
was at liberty; yet, though weaned from the world, the thoughts of once
more becoming an active member in it, made the tide of life, which had
been wont to flow calmly through its channels, rush with reanimated
force, and each pulse to beat with redoubled vigour. I raised my heart
in thankfulness to God--I blessed the generous Corbet, and on the doors
of the prison being opened to me, hastened to the hotel where he was. I
was instantly shown to the room where he was sitting, with his lady; but
such were my emotions, I could not return the thanks my heart dictated:
I attempted to speak--and burst into tears! My benefactor instantly
arose, and conducted me to a seat, and after pressing me to partake of
refreshments, requested to be informed by what circumstances I had
incurred the debt, for which I had so long suffered confinement. I
instantly complied, and gave him a concise relation of my life: when I
recounted my meeting with the peasant woman, the emotions of my auditors
were too apparent to escape observation, and the words, 'Poor Louise!'
faintly murmured by Sir Henry, (for so was my benefactor called), induce
me to believe they were the parents of that infant.

"'Fearful of intruding, when I had concluded, I arose to depart; and Sir
Henry, presenting me a small packet, said--'Oblige me, Monsieur La
Roche, by accepting this trifle; little should I evince myself a friend,
by leaving you exposed to indigence, or the fate from which I so lately
rescued you. From the misfortunes you have experienced in your native
land, you perhaps would feel little repugnance in quitting it; and I
should advise you to seek a situation in the Eastern or Western
settlements, where fortune yet may make you amends for your former
losses.

"'Oppressed as I was by his late beneficence, I for a moment hesitated
to receive this additional proof of his friendship, but the glance of
his eye, beaming with benevolence, more than his words, urged my
acceptance. I readily promised to follow his advice, and in language
scarcely coherent, was endeavouring to express my gratitude, when the
master of the packet came to inform them all was prepared for their
departure for England. Sir Henry instantly arose, and presenting his
hand to his fair companion, bade me a cordial and a last adieu. I
followed at a humble distance, willing to retain a last view of a man I
thought an honour to human nature. I saw them embark, and watched the
vessel till they retired from the deck, when I slowly retraced my way
into town. On examining the contents of my packet, I found in it, to the
amount of a thousand crowns; a sum so far exceeding my expectation, I at
first nearly doubted its reality: the sight of Antoinette and her
husband, however, convinced me my senses retained their perfect powers;
and as their appearance recalled ideas far from pleasing, I determined
to quit St. Malo's that very evening. The few necessaries I wanted, were
soon procured, and I set out towards L'Orient, intending to embark in
some vessel for Madagascar or Pondicherry.

"'As I drew near L'Orient, however, I experienced a wish to take a last
farewell of the place where I first drew breath; and therefore directed
my steps to Nantes. I there visited every place I remembered as pleasing
to my childhood; and having passed some hours greatly to my
satisfaction, went to an hotel, where I inquired after my brothers, and
my father's widow. Madame La Roche, the host informed me, had been dead
some years, and her eldest son, to whom she left the principal part of
her property, lived long enough to squander it, with that left him by my
father, and died in consequence of his debaucheries. Her second son, a
man of the fairest character and honour, and who had been brought up to
the mercantile business, was lost about two years preceding my inquiry,
in returning from America. The youngest, who had succeeded to his
property, was the only one left of her descendants; and he had been
thrown from his horse a few days before, and was so severely hurt, that
the most serious apprehensions were entertained for his life.

"'I could not, unmoved, hear this account of my only relation; in that
hour of affliction, I longed to claim the privilege of a brother; to
minister to his wants, to speak the words of comfort, and soothe the
anguish of a sick bed.--I at last determined to write: my advances
might, perhaps, be rejected with disdain; but I should nevertheless, I
thought, feel a satisfaction from the consciousness of having performed
a duty. I accordingly wrote: but, contrary to my expectation, in less
than an hour, my brother's chariot drove to the hotel, and the servants
with the utmost obsequiousness, requested my presence immediately, at
the house of their master. I went--and found my brother, as I expected,
confined to his bed; a smile of satisfaction enlivened his manly
features at my approach; for my resemblance to my father convinced him I
was not an impostor. He immediately ordered his servants to pay the same
deference to me, as to himself; and at his request I related my past
misfortunes, the reason which brought me to Nantes, and my future
prospects.

"'He heard me with attention, but strenuously opposed my leaving the
kingdom--'If I live, Hilaire,' he said, 'you shall share my fortune: if
I die--none but yourself shall inherit it.'

"'As I saw he wished it, I readily promised to remain with him; and from
that day my time and attention were employed to effect his restoration:
but my efforts, and those of the faculty, were equally ineffectual; he
died in my arms, resigned and serene, leaving me, as he had promised,
the undivided heir of his possessions.

"'I felt the loss of my brother more severely than might have been
expected from the little time he had been known to me; but the tie of
nature, never before indulged, joined to the lively regard he evinced
for me, made me regret him as the dearest of friends: and as he had left
me wealth beyond my wishes, I relinquished my intention of quitting
France, and determined to dedicate the residue of my days to the service
of my God, and the assistance of my fellow-creatures. In the course of
settling my affairs, I came to Rennes, and here meeting with a companion
of my boyish days, who had become a Benedictine, I determined to enter
into the same brotherhood; and as soon as I had fully withdrawn my money
from business, after vainly endeavouring to discover the generous
Corbet, to repay my debt of gratitude, here took the cowl. Half my
property I settled on the Convent, reserving the other at my own
disposal, to relieve those I thought deserving my assistance.

"'And here, young man, I have experienced a foretaste of that happiness
I hope to enjoy hereafter. I look forward with hope, I can look back
without regret: I have experienced misfortunes, but never was guilty of
an action, that can justly raise the blush of shame on my cheek!'"




CHAPTER V.


"The worthy Monk," continued Sir Henry, "here concluded; and I bowed my
head in conviction to the justness of the reproach his last words
implied. As the good father intended, I could not avoid drawing a
comparison of our lives; and the resignation, the fortitude he had
evinced, indeed, raised a blush for the madness of which I had been
guilty. The mention he made of my Louise, however, and the hope that,
by means, I should be able to trace her, soon obliterated every
unpleasant sensation; and, without disclosing my history or name, I
informed him the infant he had mentioned was at that time the object of
my search. I related the treatment I had met with at the convent of St.
Ursule, and asked his advice as to the measures I should pursue to
discover her. He was urgent to know who we were, but, on my telling him
I was not at liberty to reveal what he asked, he desisted; and offered
to go himself and speak to the Abbess concerning Louise. I thankfully
accepted his offer, and, at his earnest solicitation, consented to take
the sustenance I truly wanted.

"He was gone nearly an hour, and returned unsuccessful in his mission.
Mother St. Brigide could not refuse to see him, though her answers were
very unsatisfactory. She confessed that Louise had been reared in the
Convent, but utterly disclaimed all knowledge of the lady who took her.
She had not, she said, ever been admitted to the confidence of her
predecessor; and the circumstance of Louise leaving the Convent had been
both secret and sudden. Finding it impossible to gain the information he
wanted, Father Hilaire returned to me. I received his account with a
sigh, and declared my resolution to re-commence my search after Louise
the ensuing morning. He approved my determination, and imperceptibly
drew me into a conversation, as entertaining as instructive; and when
we parted at night, gave me his blessing and a purse containing forty
louis.

"The supply was seasonable. I parted from him with regret; and early the
next morning left Rennes.

"For four months I wandered through Anjou, Poitou, and Bretagne, without
meeting with any occurrence worthy of mention, or being able to trace
Louise. When I rescued her from the Count, as I before observed, I did
not see her face; and, unsuspicious of who she was, still continued my
search; till my money being expended, and not knowing how to procure
subsistence, I engaged in the vessel which conveyed me to St. Helena."

"The history of Father Hilaire," said the Captain, "is not without its
moral; from the misfortunes of others, we are induced to draw a
comparative consolation under our own; and his may truly teach the
impatient sufferer an useful lesson."

"Yet I wish, Sir Henry," said Frederick, "you had informed him who you
were; for, from the idea I have conceived of the man, I think he would
have been highly gratified in repaying the obligation he owed your
father."

"He had more than cancelled the obligation, Frederick," answered Sir
Henry, "by preserving my life; and, had I acknowledged who I was, it
might have led to questions I should have found it difficult and
distressing to have answered."

The conversation here became general, and soon after they separated for
the night.

The relation of Sir Henry added greatly to Louise's solicitude to be
informed respecting her parents, but her inquiries and intreaties were
equally ineffectual; Sir Henry persevered in his mysterious silence on
the subject, though the anxiety she showed evidently added to his
unhappiness; and, on their nearer approach to England, they with grief
perceived in him every symptom of a rapid decline. The Captain in vain
urged medical assistance; and, as he watched the daily ravages of
sorrow, painfully anticipated the moment when death would bereave him of
the friend by whose means he had hoped to recover his Ellenor.
Frederick, independently of his concern on his uncle's account, regarded
Sir Henry with more than fraternal friendship; but his eloquence was
equally unavailing to discover the source from whence his unhappiness
arose.

At last, the loud shouts of the sailors proclaimed the appearance of
their native land, and in a few days they reached the Thames: thence
Harland, impatient to introduce his Louise to his parents, proceeded to
Harland-Hall; whilst the Captain, accompanied by Sir Henry and
Frederick, pursued his way toward London, intending, as soon as he had
transacted his business there, to renew his search after Ellenor; but in
this he was prevented, by the arrival of one of Mrs. Howard's servants,
who, the morning preceding the commencement of his intended search,
hastily entered the room where he was at breakfast, and, presenting a
letter, informed him his lady was at the point of death.

Alarmed at this intelligence, he eagerly opened the letter, which was
from the steward, and confirmed the bearer's account, with entreaties
that he would immediately repair to Bristol, where Mrs. Howard had for
some time resided.--Humanity demanded compliance: the Captain
accordingly set out with the messenger, and reached Bristol a few hours
previously to Mrs. Howard's dissolution; but the malignancy which had
ever marked her character displayed itself in her latest moments. She
received the Captain with that acrimonious contempt which, for years,
had accompanied each sentiment or look addressed to him. The loss of
life she regretted, as depriving her of the power of longer tormenting
him; and, with a smile of triumph that defied the power of death to
efface, told him, she had left him her fortune, but on restriction that
he never married again, as a punishment for his treatment of her.

The Captain could not affect a concern at her death which he did not
experience; for years she had proved literally a torment; and he could
not but feel that he was free: free to claim the promise of his Ellenor,
and, in an union with her, meet a recompence for the years of
unhappiness he had endured from Deborah, whose fortune, if requisite, he
would not have hesitated a moment in resigning; but that lady's wishes
had, in this respect, exceeded her power, for her fortune was fully
secured to him at the time of their marriage.

The Captain wrote immediately for his nephew and Sir Henry, who arrived
the day after the funeral; and, having settled his affairs with the
steward, with every cheerful sentiment, hope could inspire, commenced
his projected search for Ellenor and his son.--Neither was Frederick
uninterested in the discovery of them; as the idea of the youthful Ellen
was still impressed on his mind; and he secretly wished fortune had
blessed him with independency, that he might have offered her his hand
and heart. Sir Henry likewise seemed to forget his own sorrow, in the
prospect of the Captain's happiness, and, by a number of little
anecdotes concerning the objects of their search, endeavoured to beguile
the time, and lessen the solicitude they could not altogether avoid
experiencing.

They crossed the Channel to Cardiff, and directed their course to the
humble dwelling of Jarvis, who, they thought, might, perhaps, by that
time have learned the route of the fugitives.

The honest innkeeper received them with a hearty welcome, and, in answer
to their inquiries, informed them, that a few weeks after they left the
village, a man arrived there, who declared himself commissioned by
Lieutenant Booyers, to dispose of the furniture of the cottage; which
was accordingly sold: that Jarvis had endeavoured to learn where the
Lieutenant had retired, but the man behaved with the greatest reserve.
On his leaving the village, however, he had taken a guide to Newport,
and by an inadvertent sentence he had uttered, he was induced to believe
the Lieutenant and the ladies were gone to reside at--or near
Gloucester. The Captain's heart beat with exulting hope at this
intelligence; and such was his impatience to recover the lost partner of
his heart, he would that instant have set out for Gloucester, could Sir
Henry have supported the fatigue of such rapid travelling. On his
account he consented to remain where they were till the morning, when
Sir Henry willingly obeyed his summons to continue their journey.

Early the ensuing day, they reached Gloucester, where the Captain, Sir
Henry, and Frederick, separated, to inquire through the city, agreeing
to meet in the evening, at the inn where they left their horses. For two
days they traversed the city, and, on the morning of the third, were
preparing to leave the inn, to search some of the adjacent villages,
when they were surprised by the appearance of Sir Arthur Howard. As the
Captain had long ceased to regard him with enmity, he cordially advanced
to meet him, whilst Frederick, forgetting his unkindness in the
unexpected rencounter, as eagerly sprung to embrace him. Sir Arthur was
equally surprised, though less pleased at beholding them; he, however,
returned their salutation, and, at their request, accompanied them into
the room they had quitted. He there answered to their inquiries
respecting his family, and coldly expressed his approbation at the
improvement seven years had made in the person and manners of Frederick.
Sir Arthur in reality was rather chagrined than pleased at the graceful
figure and deportment of his son, as they conveyed a reproach to
himself, at the time they evinced the care and attention of the Captain
to the duties which he, though a father, had neglected.

The Captain observed the displeasure depicted in his countenance, but,
unconscious of the cause, sought relief from an unpleasant pause in the
discourse, by asking the occasion of his being at Gloucester? The
question was likewise a relief to Sir Arthur, as it afforded him an
opportunity of venting his rising spleen.

"I came to recover a runaway," he replied, "who is endeavouring to
disgrace the family to which she has the honour to belong: but severely
shall she suffer for the fault she has committed!"

He then informed them, he had projected a match for his eldest daughter,
not only suitable, but highly advantageous, as the gentleman possessed a
noble independency, and had offered to take her without a portion: by
which means the fortune of his eldest son would be considerably
augmented; but that his daughter had objected to the union, and, on his
threatening her, had privately left the Hall. That he pursued her to
Gloucester, where, the preceding day, he had luckily overtaken her, and
was going to order his carriage, to re-convey her home, when he was
addressed by the Captain.

Frederick heard this account with concern; he well knew the harshness of
his father's temper, and sincerely pitied his sister, whom he had not
seen since the days of childhood. He now entreated he might have that
satisfaction, and Sir Arthur, who knew not well how to refuse, was
necessitated to comply: though he expressed his fear she would
endeavour to elude his vigilance, and again escape; and concluded with
an invective against children in general, for their wilfulness and
disobedience. The entrance of his daughter saved his auditors the
necessity of replying; her looks were pallid, and she approached with a
timidity, which was rather increased than relieved, by the appearance of
strangers. Frederick, however, soon recalled her recollection of a
brother to whom she had in her infancy been particularly attached; yet
she dared not yield to the pleasure she had in beholding him. Her
father's eye still sternly expressed his anger; tears fell from her own;
and folding her arms round the neck of Frederick, she wept in silence on
his bosom.

Sir Henry, who had hitherto been a silent spectator, could not, unmoved,
witness the distress of the amiable Theodosia; for every tear of
pleasure occasioned by the presence of her brother, was evidently
accompanied by one of sorrow at the treatment she received from her
father; he therefore advanced to her, and, in the mildest accents,
joined Frederick in his endeavours to soothe and cheer her. They at last
succeeded: a faint smile played on her lips, she looked up, and spoke
with some degree of confidence.

Sir Arthur observed Sir Henry's attentions, and learning from the
Captain who he was, permitted his features to unbend from their usual
severity. He was no stranger to Sir Henry's family, or the fortune
possessed by his father; and, knowing he was an only son, concluded his
possessions were equally the same. Sir Henry's attention, therefore,
which proceeded entirely from commiseration, he beheld with
satisfaction, as thinking them occasioned by a softer passion.
Theodosia, too, appeared to listen to, and regard him with unusual
pleasure; and he determined to encourage an acquaintance, as the Corbet
possessions were superior to those of the suitor he had wished Theodosia
to have accepted.

He now condescended to enter into conversation with Sir Henry: he
regarded his brother and son with a look of greater cordiality; and
declared his intention of remaining with them till the evening. The
Captain, who sincerely wished to be reconciled to him, looked on the
determination as arising from a return of fraternal friendship, and
cheerfully acceded to his proposal of passing the day together: nor
could Frederick conceal his delight at an appearance of regard he had
never before experienced, and as flattering to himself as it was
unexpected.

A half-suppressed sigh from Theodosia, reminded him of her unpleasant
situation; and, regarding the moment as favourable, he ventured to
intercede to Sir Arthur in her behalf: the Captain warmly seconded him:
Sir Henry did not think himself authorised to speak; but the concern
expressed in his countenance, and the glance of intercession he directed
to Sir Arthur, pleaded more effectually in her cause, than the eloquence
of Frederick and the Captain: as it erroneously added to his opinion,
that Sir Henry was enamoured of his daughter. Pleased with the idea, he
pretended to yield to intreaties, he would otherwise have disregarded;
and not only pronounced Theodosia's pardon for her elopement, but
promised to dismiss all thoughts of forcing her into an union with a man
she avowedly disapproved. Theodosia could not speak her joy--her thanks
at this unlooked-for indulgence; but, pressing her father's hand to her
lips, burst into tears. Sir Arthur's bosom was a stranger to the milder
virtues: he coldly reproved, what he termed, her childish behaviour;
and, withdrawing his hand, bade her not abuse the forgiveness she had by
no means merited; and remember that on her future behaviour must depend
the continuance of his good opinion.

Theodosia felt the ungenerous chiding of her father, at a moment when
her heart overflowed with the tenderest sentiments of filial gratitude
and affection; she, however, knew him to be too tenacious of his word,
to apprehend any farther importunity respecting her disagreeable lover;
and the joy, which at first expressed itself in tears, soon restored the
wonted smile to her animated countenance. Frederick beheld her returning
cheerfulness with pleasure; whilst Sir Arthur, equally pleased with Sir
Henry, and the chimerical idea he indulged of one day having him for a
son-in-law, endeavoured to soften his natural austerity, and to
conciliate the esteem of the interesting Corbet.

Early in the evening, as Sir Arthur had proposed, his carriage was in
readiness, and he parted from his brother and son, with the greatest
professions of friendship, pressing them, but more particularly Sir
Henry, to pass some weeks at Howard Hall. The Captain, highly gratified
at the occurrences of the day, readily accepted the invitation; and that
night, for the first time during many years, experienced a repose,
unembittered with the idea of a brother's hatred!

The next morning, he with his companions again continued his search
after Ellenor, hope still leading them on to the reward the ensuing day
might perhaps afford, to compensate for the disappointments of the one
which had passed.

Already had they traversed great part of Gloucestershire, when in
crossing from Painswick to Cheltenham, an equipage passed them, the
unusual elegance of which attracted the Captain's attention. A lady,
whose personal beauty, though on the wane, could be equalled by few, was
in the principal carriage; and was so intently engaged in perusing a
letter, that the party passed unheeded. The Captain was beginning to
express his admiration, when he was alarmed by Sir Henry's falling from
his horse, in a state of insensibility; from which their efforts to
recover him proved ineffectual. A servant was, therefore, dispatched for
assistance, and soon returned with a surgeon, to whose house Sir Henry
was conveyed.

The Captain's concern at this accident was considerably increased, when
he understood it might be attended with fatal consequences; and, not
being willing to intrust the life of Sir Henry entirely to the skill of
the surgeon, he sent to Gloucester for a physician, who, on visiting the
patient, declared there was no immediate danger: the illness of Sir
Henry proceeded from distress of mind; a confidential friend, he
affirmed, was the most essential requisite toward his recovery; to which
his native air might in some degree likewise conduce. To the surprise of
the Captain, and regret of the surgeon, Sir Henry instantly coincided
with the latter part of his advice, and as Ellenor, notwithstanding
Jarvis's supposition, might have retired to Caermarthen, the Captain
readily agreed to his proposal of proceeding to that county; and in
spite of Sir Henry's feeble state, which would scarcely admit of his
travelling, they, the next day, pursued their way toward Wales.




CHAPTER VI.


On entering an inn at Monmouth, the Captain was surprised at beholding
Mr. Talton, who advanced to meet him with a hasty exclamation,
expressive of the joy he felt at the rencounter. Far different were the
sensations of Sir Henry; he could not regard Mr. Talton with composure;
but, pressing the Captain's hand, bade him remember his promise, and
immediately retired to his chamber.

Mr. Talton then inquired the particulars of Sir Henry's restoration, as
he had heard an account of his visit to the parsonage, which was
afterwards confirmed by the confession of old Owen, of his real
existence: and, to the astonishment of the Captain, he learned it was
Lady Corbet who had passed them near Painswick, and who, having been
informed by Lady Dursley of her son's arrival, was then going to London,
to entreat his return to Caermarthen. This instantly accounted to the
Captain for Sir Henry's fainting, and his willingness to revisit Wales;
he would not, however, comply with Mr. Talton's proposal to apprize Lady
Corbet of their destination, that she might see her son: Sir Henry's
will, in that respect, he said, should be uncontrolled; he had given his
promise, and it should be sacred.

Mr. Talton at last ceased from further importunity; and finding the
Captain proposed to stay at Monmouth only that night, expressed his
regret at their early separation; accusing the Captain with want of
friendship, in not deferring his journey at least for one day.

"Freely, Talton," said the Captain, "would I defer my journey a week, if
it depended on myself; but, as I must think Sir Henry's life really in
danger, notwithstanding the Physician's affirmation; let that plead my
excuse.--Neither, I think, could you experience pleasure in our society;
as Sir Henry's dislike--or, term it what you will--must place a
restraint on every moment. I do not expect to leave England for some
time; and if I recover my Ellenor, most probably shall quit the
seafaring life; therefore, depend on it, I will shortly pay you a visit,
when you shall find me neither a niggard of my time, nor forgetful of
the sentiments I once avowed."

With this assurance Mr. Talton was obliged to retire for the night; but
in the morning renewed his solicitations: in which not being able to
prevail, he declared he would postpone his journey to London, and return
with the Captain to the interior of Wales.

Sir Henry turned pale at this declaration, which Mr. Talton observing,
said--"I perceive with sorrow, Sir Henry, the early prepossession you
entertained against me is not eradicated; perhaps from mistaking the
cause of your conduct, I have acted toward you with a severity foreign
to my nature, but which I thought highly authorised by reason! Your
reserve to me, on the renewal of my acquaintance with your mother, I
imputed, I acknowledge, to interested motives. That I love Lady Corbet,
is no secret to you; but that I wished to alienate her fortune--nothing
was ever farther from my thoughts! On the contrary, if your amiable
mother bless me with her hand, it is my avowed, my earnest wish, that
the estates appertaining to the Corbet family, should be resigned to
you. My fortune is more than adequate to my wants or desires: and Heaven
forbid that I should be instrumental in withholding from you those
possessions, of which the injustice of your father would deprive you."

Sir Henry sighed, and Mr. Talton, after a moments pause,
proceeded.--"Your mother has consented to resign the name of Corbet,
when her son can be prevailed on to return: but whilst he is a wanderer,
she cannot experience happiness. Thus, Sir Henry, you see the claims
which are made upon you. Your mother's happiness, consequently mine--and
I must think your own--depend on your compliance. I, therefore, again
entreat your return to the seat of your ancestors; let these seeming
mysteries be cleared up, and, by giving me a legal title to the name of
father, let me compensate for him you have lost!"

Sir Henry appeared agitated, and, taking the hand of Mr. Talton, "I
believe, Mr. Talton, I have mistaken your character. Your affection for
my mother I am no stranger to; and sincerely wish it depended but on me
to ensure your happiness: but, alas! the means would prove the bane! I
will, however, see--will speak to my mother: more I dare not promise;
and for that--I may, perhaps, answer with my life!"

Mr. Talton and the Captain regarded Sir Henry with a momentary
astonishment--"Your life!" repeated the former--But Sir Henry bowed, and
taking Frederick by the arm, left the room.

"May answer with his life!" reiterated Mr. Talton. "What, Howard, can he
mean?"

The Captain could not resolve the question, and, after a few
unsatisfactory surmises, they followed Sir Henry and Frederick, who were
already on horseback. Sir Henry's reply, however, had given rise to such
a confusion of ideas in the mind of Mr. Talton, he could by no means
reconcile them; he therefore asked an explanation: but Sir Henry's
answers tended only to increase the mystery.

In the afternoon, willing to avoid the revival of the subject, he
lingered behind with Frederick; whilst the Captain and Mr. Talton, being
engaged in a discourse highly interesting to the former, as it concerned
his Ellenor, were not aware of the separation till they had gained the
summit of a hill, where, on turning round, the Captain perceived them
and their attendants nearly two miles behind. He immediately proposed to
wait for them, and, retiring beneath the shade of an oak, began to
descant on the prospect before them, which presented one of the richest
scenes of autumn.

The non-appearance of Sir Henry and Frederick, however, soon recalled
their attention from the beauties of nature; and the Captain, declaring
his apprehension that some accident had happened, with every mark of
impatient concern, descended the hill, followed by Mr. Talton and his
servant. Their party, however, was not to be perceived. They had,
indeed, taken a road, which led in a different direction from the bottom
of the hill, and which the Captain now first observed. Anxious to
overtake them, he hastened the pace of his horse, but no appearance of
them could be discovered; and the road branching off into a variety of
others, added to his perplexity. In this dilemma, he followed the advice
of Mr. Talton, and entered that which, from its direction, they supposed
would lead to Brecon: but it soon became so intricate, that they at
last agreed to relinquish the attempt, and endeavour to trace their way
back.

This, however, they found as difficult to accomplish, nor was it till
night had spread her glooms over the surrounding scenes, that they
entered a road, which, from the plainness of its tracks, they imagined
to be the one they had formerly quitted. Mr. Talton could not refrain
from a hasty exclamation against the young men, for their carelessness:
which was answered by expressions of concern on their account by the
Captain.

Slowly they ascended the hill; when, to the consternation of Mr. Talton,
he discovered they had entirely mistaken their road: they had, however,
no alternative, but to proceed, trusting to Providence for guidance; and
continued their way, till they arrived at a place where the road again
taking different directions, involved them in their former perplexity.

"What is now to be done?" asked Mr. Talton. "By Heavens, I think some
dæmon has placed a spell in our path, to mislead and confound us! Fools
that we were, to travel without a guide!"

"The road was sufficiently plain," answered the Captain, "if we had not
negligently missed it. But hark! I think I hear the trampling of
horses. If it be Sir Henry and my nephew, I shall think little of
passing the night under the canopy of Heaven: and in the morning we may
easily rectify our mistake."

He listened attentively; but, two horsemen only approached: he, however,
hailed them, and on being answered, briefly recounted the manner in
which he had been separated from his nephew, his subsequent search, and
the unpleasant situation he was then in, begging to know if they had
accidentally seen the objects of his anxiety, or would direct him to
some hamlet or town, where he and his friend might procure
accommodations for the night?

"I am sorry, Sir," said the stranger, who had first answered the
Captain's salutation, "it is not in my power to give you any
intelligence respecting your friends. In regard to a night's lodging, it
is at least three miles to the next village, whence I now come, and the
road is very indifferent; I reside about half a mile from this place,
and if you will accompany me home, although I cannot promise you
splendid entertainment, I can insure you a hearty welcome."

Pleased with the frankness of the offer, the Captain and Mr. Talton
accepted it, and, turning their horses, followed the benevolent
stranger. The uncertainty, however, of Frederick's and Sir Henry's
safety, destroyed the momentary satisfaction of the Captain, nor could
he help expressing his fears to the stranger.

"Hope for the best, Sir," he replied: "my humble dwelling, though
screened on this side from observation, commands an extensive view over
the lower part of the country; where, from your account, I am induced to
think your friends have strayed: and whence the light from our window
will most probably serve them as a guide."

"May it prove a favourable beacon!" said the Captain. "Yonder is the
place of our destination," continued the stranger, extending his hand
toward a distant light.

"Aye--and there, Sir," said his attendant, "is Argus barking most
furiously. What, in the name of wonder, can ail the beast? Surely the
house is not beset by thieves."

The stranger stopped his horse for a moment, and listened--the barking
continued without intermission, and a distant shout likewise assailed
their ears.

"Something, I am afraid, has indeed happened," he cried in a voice of
concern. "If you please, gentlemen, we will hasten forward."

The shouts increased, mixed with the deep-mouthed tones of Argus: but
not as they had apprehended, in a direction from the house. They,
however, still hastened forward.--"It may be our fugitives," said the
Captain.--"Ah! I hear Frederick's voice!" He now exerted his own, and in
a few minutes, was joined by the wanderers.

"Thank heaven, my dear uncle, we have found you!" said Frederick
exultingly--"a circumstance, from the various accidents we have met
with, beyond my hopes. But for this noble dog, we should most probably
yet have been in a morass, we incautiously entered."

The Captain could scarcely express his concern at the difficulties they
had experienced, ere they arrived at the gateway, leading to the
ancient though not extensive dwelling of the hospitable stranger. An
aged man-servant attended the summons of his master: Sir Henry started
on beholding him, and, anxiously grasping the Captain's arm, cried--"O
gracious Heaven!--haste, haste, Captain!" and hurrying him past their
kind invitor, entered the house.--The Captain had not time to ask the
meaning of his behaviour, before Sir Henry, with a trembling hand, threw
open the door of a parlour.

A cheerful fire blazed on the hearth, round which were seated a
gentleman, a lady, and two lovely girls.

"Is that my Edward?" the lady asked; and, raising her head, discovered
to the Captain, the features of his Ellenor!

"My Ellenor!" he exclaimed, rushing to her, "Yes, it is your Edward! my
loved--my long-lost Ellenor!"

A scream of surprise and delight escaped her as he caught her in his
arms, and faintly articulating his name, she sunk inanimate on his
bosom.

Mrs. Blond, who had been engaged in an adjoining room, alarmed by the
scream, flew to the assistance of her friend, at the moment Mr. Talton,
Frederick, and young Howard, entered the room: but the appearance of
the former, in an instant obliterated every other idea, and, wildly
clasping her hands, she stood the image of horror!

"My mother!--Do I once more behold you?" said Sir Henry, hastening to
meet her--but she heeded him not, her eye was fixed on Talton: nor was
it till the repeated exclamation of--"Sir Henry! my benefactor!" roused
her from her stupor. Franticly she threw her arms round Sir Henry; but
Talton again attracting her eye, she as hastily pushed him from her,
crying--"Fly--fly, my Harry; destruction awaits thee! It is Talton
himself. Fly to Howard, he only can protect thee! Oh! Ellenor--Ellenor,
ruin awaits us all."

The surprise which had been depicted on the countenance of Mr. Talton,
now yielded to embarrassment, as his name was faintly echoed on every
side: Sir Henry vainly attempted to persuade them Talton was not an
enemy: Mrs. Blond still urged him to fly, till overpowered by the
agitation of her mind, she sunk in a state of insensibility on the
floor.

All was incoherence and confusion: the friendly Booyers had been
assisting the Captain and young Howard, to restore Ellenor to life; he
now ran distractedly from her to Mrs. Blond, in vain calling for help:
the entrance of the servants but added to the distress which prevailed.

At last the Captain, with joy perceived the current of life re-animate
the features of his Ellenor; who, in a few minutes, became conscious of
her situation. With a smile of inexpressible delight, she took the hand
of her son, and placing it in that of the Captain, encircled them in her
arms. The action spoke more than words; nature confessed it: Edward
intuitively bent his knee, and as the Captain raised, and pressed him to
his heart, he felt that moment more than recompensed for all he had
suffered.

A faint groan from Mrs. Blond now reached the ear of Ellenor, and,
leaving her Edward, she flew to the side of this companion in her
afflictions: but her attentions were equally unavailing to recall her
senses, and she was therefore conveyed to her chamber, followed by her
daughter and Ellen. Ellenor would likewise have attended, but was
prevented by Sir Henry, who, affectionately taking her hand, was
beginning to congratulate her on her restoration to the Captain, when
the door was again thrown open, and the old servant-man rushed into the
room.

"It is--it is Sir Henry!" he exclaimed, throwing himself at his feet.
"Little did I think, when I opened the gate, it was to admit the son of
my beloved master. Yet my old eyes could not distinguish you: but since
the news arrived that you were drowned, they have been more dim than
they were wont to be! Ah! many a tear has been shed for your loss, my
master; and as often have I wished, I could have recalled your life, by
resigning my own."

"I thank you, my good old friend," said Sir Henry, raising him;
"sincerely thank you for your love: and may one day have it in my power
to acknowledge it more effectually, than by words; though, for myself,
Thomas, the tomb of my father is the only inheritance I covet!"

His head drooped on his bosom, whilst the starting tear too plainly
evinced the painful recollection of the moment. With looks of the
tenderest pity, Ellenor folded him in her arms.

"Forgive me," continued Sir Henry, returning her embrace. "At such a
moment as this, I ought not to let a single idea of myself intrude, to
cast a gloom on your happiness. For your sake--for the sake of my
beloved Eliza, and her mother, I will break through those ties, which
have hitherto restrained me, and act according to the dictates of
justice!"

"The means are in our power!" cried old Thomas, exultingly. "The night
before my Lady returned from London, with the account of your death, I
entered the closet of my deceased master; the event answered our
expectation: and now let the guilty beware!"

Sir Henry sighed; but in a moment assuming a more cheerful aspect,
reminded Thomas, they were weary travellers, who, for some hours had not
received refreshment.

Thomas instantly left the room; and Sir Henry congratulated the Captain
and his Ellenor on the late happy discovery. Young Howard and Lieutenant
Booyers likewise claimed his attention; he introduced them to Frederick
and Mr. Talton, who, already prepossessed in their favour, eagerly
accepted, and returned their proffered friendship. The name of Talton
caused a momentary alarm in the bosom of Ellenor: involuntarily she
threw herself into the arms of the Captain, for protection; but, on his
assuring her of Talton's friendship, apologized for her mistrust, and
extending her hand, welcomed him with all the cordiality she had
formerly shown.

"I believe, Mrs. Crawton," said Mr. Talton, "my appearance here is as
surprising to you, as the events of this evening have been to me. Some
strange mistake exists; but as an explanation is beyond my power, I can
only assert my innocence of intentional wrong toward you, or your
friends!"

"No more apologies, Talton," said the Captain; "let the past be
forgotten; for your conduct in future, I will be answerable; and, as the
first proof of your friendship, shall demand your attendance again on my
Ellenor, as a father.--Your Howard," he continued to Ellenor, "is, thank
Heaven, at last at liberty, and here claims your promise, of again
uniting your fate to his for ever!"

A tear of grateful delight swelled in the eye of Ellenor, as she gave
him her hand, and assured him her promise was not forgotten.

The entrance of Ellen and Eliza, with the account that Mrs. Blond was
fallen into a gentle sleep, added to their satisfaction: "And as I was
anxious," said Ellen with a smile, "to see my adopted brother, I
persuaded Eliza to leave her mother to the sweets of repose, and return
with me to our friends."

A blush overspread the beautiful face of her companion, as Sir Henry
said--"And did Eliza require persuasion, to return to the presence of
her Henry? A welcome from her was the first wish of my heart, and is she
then the last to give it?"

"Do more justice to the sentiments of Eliza," said young
Howard.--"Deeply has she mourned the loss of Corbet; and her heart, I am
certain, if not her tongue, sincerely welcomes, and rejoices at his
return."

Sir Henry pressed the hand of the blushing girl to his lips, and, with a
heart more replete with happiness than he had long experienced, attended
the summons to the supper-table. The restraint which the presence of Mr.
Talton at first created, gradually wore off; as, willing to eradicate
the idea he was certain they entertained of him, he exerted those powers
of pleasing, which he possessed in an eminent degree; and on their
retiring for the night, each secretly wished he might prove himself as
amiable as he had that evening appeared to be.




CHAPTER VII.


Early in the morning, the Captain rose, and having dispatched his
servant to Monmouth for a licence, left the house for the purpose of
enjoying a ramble, till the appearance of his Ellenor; but had not
proceeded many paces, when he perceived his son, Sir Henry, and
Frederick. He immediately joined them, and, under the guidance of
Edward, traced the tangled wilds, which had afforded an asylum to his
Ellenor.

"It is now more than eighteen months," said young Howard, "since the
appearance of Mr. Talton drove us from the house of Lieutenant Booyers,
whither we had retired on the report of Sir Henry's death. Not knowing
which way to direct our steps, and uncertain whether, in flying from one
evil, we were not hurrying into a greater, we pursued an indirect road
to Monmouth; where, leaving my mother and Mrs. Blond, I set out with our
faithful Thomas, in search of an obscure village, or cot, that might
afford us the shelter we required.

"Fortune conducted me to this spot, which was then in the wildest state
of ruin. The beauties which surrounded it, and its retired situation,
immediately pointed it out as a place designed by Heaven to afford the
asylum we wanted. The owner, for a trifling consideration, agreed to my
becoming his tenant, and here we removed the whole of our property, not
amounting to a hundred pounds.--Industry, however, found out many means
of procuring a livelihood: needle-work, embroidery, painting, every
accomplishment was turned to account, and, with superintending our
household affairs, employed the time of my mother and her friends.

"Thomas, before he entered the service of Sir Horace Corbet, had been
engaged in the farming business; and under his direction, your Edward,
my dear Sir, set his hand to the plough and spade; nor was our friendly
Booyers idle; though deprived of an arm, he assisted in sowing, pruning,
&c. and under his care, the garden soon assumed a pleasing and
flourishing appearance.--On our first coming, we engaged an useful
active man, who lived in the only cottage near our residence; and who,
from his knowledge of the land, directed, as well as executed, our first
plans of husbandry: his wife likewise superintends our dairy, who, with
Susan, comprise the female attendants of our family. This man, we sent,
as being unknown, to dispose of the furniture left in the residence we
had so abruptly deserted: and he executed his commission with the
greatest exactness; leaving the village, as we had directed, by a
different route from the one he was really to pursue; by which means, we
hoped to avoid being traced. Our house was soon repaired: and our
harvest, though late, richly repaid our labour. Plenty, indeed, has here
deigned to dwell; and, could we have forgotten the past, we might have
been happy; but remembrance still recalled the friends we had lost, and,
by a retrospect of the injuries we had suffered, cast a shade on the
passing moment."

"But what, my son," said the Captain, "are the injuries to which you
allude?"

The appearance of Mr. Talton and Lieutenant Booyers, prevented Edward
from replying; and, on being joined by those gentlemen, the conversation
was renewed on general subjects, till they arrived at the spot where the
Captain had the preceding evening met with his son; when Mr. Talton
said,--"I yesterday, Howard, should have treated the idea with the
greatest ridicule, that the accidents we met with, could be the means of
conducting us to Mrs. Crawton, or that by losing our way, you should
meet with a son, you have so many years vainly sought.--But under your
present embarrassments," he continued, addressing Edward, "do you think,
young gentleman, you acted prudently in inviting two strangers to your
house? Had Talton been the man you suspected, it might have been
attended with unpleasant circumstances. But it was benevolence which
impelled you, and it has been rewarded!"

"Or rather, Sir," said Edward smiling, "it was nature; which, the moment
my father spoke, attached me to him, and destroyed the caution, which
the situation of our affairs certainly required."

"Providence," said Frederick, "equally guided us all. By deviating from
our road yesterday, we saved the life of a man and his son; who, in
crossing a foot-bridge, by the heedlessness of the boy, fell into the
current beneath. We likewise had the satisfaction of relieving a
family, reduced to the lowest state of poverty and distress. These
circumstances detained us a considerable time; and afforded such ample
scope for conversation, that all remembrance of you and Mr. Talton was
lost; and it was not till the close of day, you recurred to our
recollection. Willing then to rectify the error we had committed, we
took the nearest direction toward Brecon; but had not proceeded far,
before Sir Henry's horse sunk into a morass; and in endeavouring to
assist him, my own met with the same fate. This completed our distress;
and by the time we had succeeded in extricating the unlucky animals,
darkness had nearly enveloped the heavens. We would then have retraced
our path, but could not discover it; and fearful of wandering from the
spot where we were, we hallooed for assistance, but without effect; and
I began to have very disagreeable ideas, when we were relieved by Argus,
who sprung to Sir Henry, with the familiarity of an old acquaintance,
enticing us to follow him; nor did we deliberate long, but, tying a
handkerchief to his collar, submitted ourselves to his guidance. He soon
conducted us to a firm road, and we were directing our steps toward the
light, which beamed from the windows of our friends, when you, my dear
uncle, so happily joined us."

They were here interrupted by the arrival of a servant, with a summons
to breakfast, and, on entering the parlour, they had the satisfaction
of seeing Mrs. Blond, assembled with the rest of the family. Sir Henry
instantly flew to her, and affectionately welcomed her return to their
society.

"The happiness of my friend Ellenor, and the discovery of your
existence," said Mrs. Blond, faintly smiling, "have been my
restoratives; to see the child of my beloved Corbet; to know that the
means of obtaining him justice, are in our possession--O, Harry, I
cannot speak my joy!"

They proceeded to breakfast, and the Captain, at Ellenor's request,
related the occurrences of his life, since their separation, and the
little train of accidents which had conducted him to her. "And now, my
Ellenor," he continued, "will you gratify my impatience, and explain a
mystery, which for years has perplexed and rendered me unhappy?"

"As I live, there are Harland and Louise!" interrupted Sir Henry, as a
carriage drove to the gate; and, hastening out of the room, he
immediately introduced his sister and the Lieutenant. An exclamation of
surprise escaped Mr. Talton, as Sir Henry presented her to him, but
passed unheeded, as the Captain asked Harland, by what accident he had
discovered where they were?

"By unexpectedly meeting your servant, Captain," answered Harland.--"We
have for some weeks been engaged in a ramble through the adjacent parts,
and were this morning going to Brecon, when we met James. He instantly
informed us where you were, and of some farther particulars, which
induced us to use the privilege of relationship, and join Sir Henry.

"Welcome, indeed," said Ellenor, "shall the relations of my Henry ever
be. The countenance of Louise is a passport to the heart; nor is there
one here, who could refuse her a claim to their friendship."

Louise looked wistfully at Ellenor; the strong resemblance between her
and Sir Henry, the cordiality of her salutation, gave rise to the idea,
that it might perhaps be the mother she so ardently wished to know, who
embraced her. The name of mother faintly escaped her lips, as her
inquiring eye glanced to Sir Henry, for a confirmation of her suspicion.

"No, my sweet girl," replied Sir Henry, "this Lady is not your mother;
would to Heaven thine were equally amiable! This morning, Louise, is
dedicated to the explanation of my life and conduct; and fortunately are
you arrived to learn the particulars of your birth without necessitating
me to repeat a tale, which will distress you equally to hear, as me to
relate."

"I was early taught resignation to the will of Heaven, my brother,"
replied Louise; "nor will I shrink from the recital; though happy should
I have deemed myself, if I had here found a mother!"

"In affection you shall, sweet girl," said Ellenor; "Louise is not
answerable for the vices of her parents!"

The Captain here introduced his Ellenor and son, more particularly to
Harland and Louise; who congratulated them on their restoration to each
other; and after they had partaken of refreshments, the Captain reminded
Sir Henry of the expected relation.

"Yet, before I commence my narrative," said Sir Henry, "let me explain
the meaning of a sentence, you say has occasioned you so much
anxiety--the secret to which your Ellenor in her letter alluded.

"In Ellenor Worton, then, give me leave to introduce the daughter of Sir
Horace Corbet--the sister of my father! Worton was the name she received
from her god-mother, and which she wholly assumed, when the harshness of
Sir Horace drove her from her paternal roof; and when she discovered,
that her Howard had been previously married, she regarded it as a
punishment for her breach of filial obedience. Suspend your surprise a
moment.--In Mrs. Blond, behold the youngest daughter of Sir James
Elvyn:--another victim of my grandfather's cruelty and injustice!"

"Good God!" cried Mr. Talton: "And does your mother, Sir Henry, know of
these circumstances?"

"She does, Mr. Talton," answered Sir Henry, with a sigh. The Captain's
looks likewise testified his surprise.--"But wherefore, my Ellenor," he
said, "the necessity of concealing your name from my knowledge?"

"With the character of my father, Howard," answered Ellenor, "you have
already been made acquainted. Proud, vindictive, and avaricious, every
consideration yielded to the gratification of those passions. On account
of her fortune, he married my mother, to whom he proved literally a
tyrant: nor did his children experience greater affection or indulgence.
When I was seventeen, old Lord Aberford, who had accidentally seen me,
declared himself my admirer; and as his offers were highly gratifying to
my father, he little regarded sacrificing my happiness. In vain were my
tears, my mother's intreaties, or the supplications of my brother: fury
took possession of his bosom, at our daring to dispute his will; and in
the first paroxysm of rage, he sent my mother to a ruinous seat he
possessed in Cornwall, ordered my brother back to college, and confined
me to my chamber; which he vowed I should never leave, till he resigned
me to the arms of Lord Aberford. The being separated from my mother, was
the severest punishment he could inflict, as her tenderness ever
compensated for the harshness of his behaviour.

"His increasing severity, every time he visited my apartment, had nearly
reduced me to compliance, when Thomas returned from Cornwall, and
secretly delivered me a letter from my mother. She advised me, if my
father still persisted in forcing me into an union with Lord Aberford,
to leave the Hall, and seek an asylum at Mrs. Radnor's, the bosom friend
of her early days. The means of escape were easily effected by Thomas,
who at night placed a ladder at my window, and conducted me in safety
to the park-gate, whence Owen, the gamekeeper, who was waiting with
horses, escorted me to Radnor Moor.--Mrs. Radnor received me with open
arms, and, fully aware of the violent temper of my father, advised my
taking the name of Worton; and, to screen me more effectually from his
knowledge, a few days after left the Moor for Brighthelmstone.

"I there, Howard, became acquainted with you. The sentiments we
entertained for each other, were reciprocal; and freely should I have
communicated the secret of my family, but Mrs. Radnor strenuously
opposed it. Her detestation of my father, daily increased, and as he
had declared that he no longer regarded me as his daughter, I should
not, she said, with her approbation, ever acknowledge him as a father.
The favourable opinion she entertained of you, encouraged the passion I
had imbibed, and, regarding her councils as those of a parent, I early
avowed my affection and consented to plight my faith to you for ever.

"At this time, my brother privately visited us. My father, he said,
continued inveterate against me, and having discovered that my mother
had been the instigator of my elopement, he still confined her at his
estate in Cornwall, though he occasionally allowed my brother the
liberty of seeing her. Henry brought me a letter, the last I ever
received from my beloved mother. It was dictated by maternal tenderness.
The happiness of her children, she said, constituted hers: Henry's, she
thought, would be established in his expected union with Miss Elvyn; and
mine, she hoped, would be equally secured, in the choice I had made. She
added a blessing on our nuptials; and the morning after Henry left us,
to join his friend Booyers, previously to his intended marriage, I gave
my hand to you at the altar.

"Happy, indeed, were the days which succeeded our union, till the
illness of Mrs. Radnor; which was occasioned by the sudden disclosure of
my mother's death: her own followed in a few days, and I had to mourn
the loss of both, and the knowledge I then first received of a brother's
unhappiness.

"Gladly would I have flown to the bosom of my Edward, for consolation;
but Mrs. Radnor had extorted a promise from me, not to undeceive
you.--'If Crawton, my child,' she said, 'should find that you have acted
disingenuously by him, it may implant suspicion in his mind, and destroy
the tenderness you at present experience. Rest satisfied, then, my love,
with the happiness you enjoy, nor hazard its destruction by that which
cannot possibly increase it. If I advise wrong, may Heaven forgive me;
but I speak from the best of motives.'

"Ah! she knew not the heart of Howard, or the precaution had been
needless. What passed from that time, Edward, till the discovery of your
prior marriage, I need not repeat: and what I experienced at that
moment, is beyond my power to describe! An idea of self-destruction took
possession of my mind, till the remembrance of my infant checked my
despair; when, finding Susan willing to follow my fortune, I determined
on flight. Your absence favoured my design; and leaving a few lines for
you, with Mary, I proceeded to London.

"I was there delivered of my Edward, and as soon as I was enabled to
bear the fatigue of travelling, proceeded to Caermarthen; where I sent
a peasant to the Hall, and a few hours after had the satisfaction of
beholding my brother.

"But ah, what an alteration had two years made in the once blooming, and
ever interesting Corbet! All indeed was changed, but the heart of Henry!

"He wept over the sorrows of his Ellenor, promised to prove a father to
my babe, and a protector to me: but, starting from his seat, he
exclaimed, 'O God! vain is the promise!--Your father, Ellenor, has
deprived me of the power. To revenge your refusal of Lord Aberford, he
has cut you off from every part of his fortune; and prohibited my
affording you the least pecuniary assistance, under forfeiture of every
part of my property, but that entailed from my ancestors. Yet, think
not, Ellenor, I can desert you: no, though I cannot publicly support you
as my sister, I still will prove myself a brother!'

"Till that moment I knew not the death of my father: tears relieved my
oppressed heart, and Henry, again embracing me, continued--'Grieve not,
my sister; your father, in his last moments, wished he had been less
severe; blessed his Ellenor, and prayed she might find a better friend
than he had proved. He would have altered his will, but death prevented
him: and your brother must ever be subjected to the control of--.'

"He paused--Alas! my brother, I knew not then the full extent of your
misery!

"He that evening conducted me to the house of Mr. Blond, where for
seventeen years I lived secluded from the world. The occurrences which
then drove me from Caermarthen, will be fully recounted in the narrative
of our Henry."

"Thanks, my dear Ellenor," said the Captain, "for your part of these
explanations. It indeed shows me, by what trifles the happiness or
misery of life may be occasioned. For a farther and final explanation,
Sir Henry, we must now refer to you."

"The task," said Sir Henry, "is indeed a painful one: as it must
discover the vices of a parent--nature still forces me to love!" He
paused a moment, when, perceiving all were attentive, he began his
relation, in the following words.


END OF VOLUME II.


  THE
  MYSTERIOUS WANDERER.

  A NOVEL:
  IN THREE VOLUMES.

  Dedicated, by Permission,
  _TO THE RIGHT HON. LADY ELIZABETH SPENCER._

  BY SOPHIA REEVE.

  VOL. III.

  LONDON

  PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY C. SPILSBURY, ANGEL-COURT,
  SNOW-HILL;

  AND SOLD BY RICHARDSON AND SON, ROYAL-EXCHANGE;
  J. HIGHLEY, FLEET-STREET; AND DIDIER AND TEBBETT,
  ST. JAMES'S-STREET.

  1807




THE

MYSTERIOUS WANDERER.




CHAPTER I.


"The sudden death of Sir James Elvyn," said Sir Henry, "and the
deprivation of the fortunes he designed his daughters, you were long
since, Captain Howard, informed of by Jarvis; I must therefore commence
my narrative from the time those circumstances happened.

"With her fortune, Eliza Elvyn lost every attraction in the eyes of my
grandfather, which could render an union between her and his son
desirable; and he accordingly forbade my father to continue his
addresses; but, finding his commands were disregarded, he hurried him to
Caermarthen, where he endeavoured to enforce my father's obedience to
relinquish Eliza, and address the daughter of Mr. Holly: but as every
menace proved ineffectual, and intercepting a letter my father had
written to Eliza, proposing an elopement; Sir Horace placed him in the
strictest confinement, and, leaving the Hall, put in execution the
simple piece of finesse by which he secured the person of Miss Elvyn,
and with which you are already acquainted.

"Sir Horace conveyed her to the Hall, and to a private apartment
adjoining his own; where he resolved she should remain till my father's
marriage with Miss Holly was completed. This was prevented by my
mother's elopement, and my father, seizing the first moment of liberty,
flew to the late residence of his Eliza. She was gone; but where to, he
could not trace! Sir Horace, however, feared it; and, though he had
failed in one point, warily executed a plan, which put it beyond the
power of fate ever to unite her to him.

"Prior to his marriage with my grandmother, he seduced the daughter of
one of his tenants; and by her had a son; whom, more from a sense of
shame than affection, he had indeed reared and educated; but with a
parsimony, which plainly showed with what reluctance he did it. Joseph,
however, rose superior to every obstruction the avarice of my
grandfather presented, and shone unrivalled in every branch of
literature.

"At college my father first became personally acquainted with him, and,
struck with admiration at his amiable qualities and extraordinary
abilities, soon felt that friendship he merited; and Joseph, equally
pleased at the mildness of my father's demeanour, so different from the
manners of Sir Horace, received and returned his friendship with an
enthusiastic affection, that ended only with his life.

"In spite of every effort of reason, Joseph never came into the presence
of Sir Horace, without experiencing in some degree the dread he
entertained of him when a child, and which his harshness indeed
justified: Sir Horace's will was an absolute law, to which he had ever
yielded implicit obedience, nor was my grandfather's tyranny over him
then less absolute.

"Joseph was unacquainted with the late transactions; the last letter he
had received from my father, was on the immediate death of Sir James
Elvyn, which he knew had deferred the intended nuptials. He now, with
surprise, read Sir Horace's invitation to the Hall; the idea, however,
that it was on account of the marriage, and perhaps to perform the
ceremony, as he had taken holy orders, overcame his reluctance of being
with Sir Horace; especially as he regarded the invitation as a proof of
my father's friendship.

"Greatly was he deceived: for on his arrival he was introduced to Sir
Horace, who, after recapitulating the favours he had, or pretended to
have conferred, told Joseph he had sent for him to present him with the
Corbet living, then vacant by the death of the incumbent; but on the
condition that he accepted a wife provided for him. Joseph, recovering
from the surprise this unexpected donation and overture had occasioned,
thanked my grandfather for a provision so far beyond his hopes; assuring
him at the same time he would obey his command, if there were the least
probability of his proving agreeable to, or liking the lady he had
proposed.

"The lady, Sir Horace said, was perfectly agreeable to the match; she
was handsome and good-natured, and he might look on the living as her
dowry: and finally gave him to understand he was determined on the
match, whether he approved it or not. Joseph silently acquiesced; his
heart was unengaged, and, as I before observed, my grandfather's will
was a law he had never dared to dispute.--Satisfied with his tacit
compliance, Sir Horace left him, and went to Miss Elvyn, who was little
prepared for the peremptory command he gave her to marry Joseph."

"I must retire, Henry;" said Mrs. Blond, in vain endeavouring to
suppress the obtrusive tear; "recollection is too painful to let me
listen to the relation. I will rejoin you by and by."

Sir Henry kissed her hand, and conducted her to the door; then,
re-seating himself, resumed his relation.

"Our unhappy friend, who had too fatally experienced to what lengths Sir
Horace dared to go, at first strove, by tears, to move his obduracy;
but his heart was callous; nor, when roused to anger, were her
reproaches more regarded. Marry Joseph, she should, he was determined.
She gave a positive refusal! She would suffer death first! He had
sanctioned Henry's addresses to her; had witnessed and approved their
reciprocal vows of affection and fidelity; vows which, however he might
then disapprove, it was not in his power to break! Sir Horace's eyes
gleamed fury--she would suffer death first--he repeated; then so she
should! For from that apartment she should never go alive, except she
acceded to his proposal.

"He left her, and returning to Joseph, told him the presentation of the
living should be made out; but as the parsonage wanted a great many
repairs, his marriage should be deferred till it was fit for the
reception of his bride. Joseph marked the contraction of his brow,
acquiesced, and, changing the discourse, ventured to inquire after my
father. He was not at the Hall, Sir Horace said, nor did he expect him
for some time.

"He was, indeed, searching the country for his Eliza: this Sir Horace
knew; and therefore determined, if possible, to force her into a
marriage with Joseph before his return; but the resolution of Miss Elvyn
rose superior to his harshness and ill treatment; and at the time my
father's nuptials took place, she was still a prisoner.

"After spending some months in endeavouring to find Miss Elvyn, my
father, at the positive injunction of Sir Horace, returned to
Caermarthen; where he passed the greatest part of his time with Joseph,
unconscious that the Hall contained the jewel whose loss he deplored.

"When Miss Holly visited her brother, to intercede for her niece, Sir
Horace again insisted on my father's receiving the fair fugitive as his
wife. My father faintly murmured the name of Eliza.

"'Miss Elvyn,' said my grandfather, exalting his voice, 'is now the wife
of another: she gave her hand to Mallet, Mr. Holly's steward, and is now
with him in France. Read that,' throwing him a letter, 'and be
convinced.'

"My father eagerly took the pretended epistle of Mallet; it was
addressed to Mr. Holly, and, after apologizing for his abrupt departure
from his service, and mentioning some circumstances respecting his late
stewardship, proceeded to inform him of his marriage with Miss Elvyn,
which had taken place through the friendship of Sir Horace, who had
presented him with a genteel competence, on condition of his leaving the
kingdom. That he had accordingly proceeded to Paris, where he hoped the
amusements of that metropolis, and his attentions united, would, in a
little time, reconcile his wife to her fate.

"The letter answered Sir Horace's expectation; my father knew him
capable of acting in the manner related, too well to entertain a doubt
of the letter being genuine; and looked on Eliza as irrecoverably lost
to him; and, my grandfather repeating his commands with denunciations of
the heaviest curses if he refused, he yielded an unwilling consent, and
two days after attended him to Mr. Holly's, where he was united to my
mother.

"Sir Horace exulted in the success of his artifice, and became so
attached to his daughter-in-law, that he appeared never to be happy out
of her presence. That happiness, however, was soon after interrupted by
the severe indisposition of my mother; and Sir Horace not only dreaded
losing his favourite; but that my father, should he again be free, might
discover and still espouse Eliza, to whom his hatred had increased to a
most rancorous degree: he, therefore, took the opportunity of my
father's going to visit a neighbouring gentleman; and, sending for
Joseph, reminded him of the condition on which he had given him the
living, and told him he intended his marriage should take place
immediately.

"Joseph's heart revolted at the indelicacy of Sir Horace's proceedings;
but what was his surprise, when he beheld him enter the secret chamber,
and peremptorily tell Miss Elvyn she must, that instant, accept the man
he had provided for her husband!

"'Never!' cried Eliza.

"'This instant, Madam!' vociferated Sir Horace. 'Henry is married to
Miss Holly; nor will I longer be baffled by your refusal.'

"'Henry married--O God!' she ejaculated. At that moment my father, who
had returned, not finding his friend at home, entered the outward
chamber, and saw the long-lost Eliza, sinking at his father's feet.

"Poor must be the attempt to describe his emotions at that moment: he
flew to raise her, and on her revival an eclaircissement, dreadful
indeed to him, took place. Sir Horace stamped and raved; but still
declared, she should instantly marry Joseph.

"This Joseph resolutely refused to consent to; and severely reproved him
for the measures he had pursued. Sir Horace did not receive the rebuke
unmoved, and was denouncing vengeance on them all, when my mother
likewise entered, to inform him the clergyman he had sent for, was
arrived. What a scene for a wife, like my mother: Eliza was weeping on
the bosom of my father!--there needed no more----

"Oh, Captain Howard, let me pass what followed! Sir Horace, finding it
impossible to terrify them to compliance, as a last resource, sunk on
his knees, and vowed to fix his eternal curse on my father, if they
longer refused the marriage he had proposed: and began to pronounce a
solemn anathema, when the half-distracted Eliza broke from my father's
arms, and throwing herself beside him, implored for mercy on her Henry:
she would consent--she would marry Blond!

"Joseph's horror and agitation were nearly equal to Eliza's, nor dared
he longer urge denial: the clergyman was summoned, and my wretched
father, amidst the taunts and reproaches of his unfeeling wife, was
witness to the marriage!

"This was the last tyranny of which fate allowed Sir Horace to be
guilty. Displeased at a letter, he intercepted, from my grandmother to
my father, he went to Cornwall, and was severely upbraiding her, when
Lady Corbet, who had been some time in a decline, regarded him with a
look of mingled anguish and pity, and, extending her hand to him,
said--'I forgive you, Corbet; but, oh--have mercy on my children!' then,
sinking gently back on her seat, resigned her spirit without a sigh!

"The impressive manner of her last few words, her death, by him so
unexpected, struck to his heart; he felt he had been a tyrant, and had
accelerated an event which must shortly happen to himself; and, for the
first time, wished he had been less severe. The expressive
exclamation--'Have mercy on my children!' still vibrated on his ear: he
returned to the Hall, from whence he was summoned to the bedside of Mr.
Holly, who died a few days after.

"This was too much, even for the callousness of Sir Horace: horror
filled his bosom; and his constitution, apparently robust, yielded to
the agitation of his mind; he took to his bed, and for some days
experienced torments unspeakable. Repeatedly he conjured my father, who
never quitted him, to forgive him; and at last desired to see Joseph and
Mrs. Blond; but the appearance of the pale, emaciated Eliza, added to
his agonies: he struggled for breath.

"'Forgive--forgive me!' he pantingly cried. 'Do not curse me! Oh,
Ellenor! my child, mayest thou find a better friend than thy father has
proved!--Send for my lawyer this instant--let me alter my will: for you,
too, Corbet!--'

"He sunk in the arms of my father.

"At such a moment, could they refuse the forgiveness he entreated? Oh,
no! Death was fast approaching: with a last struggle he seized the hands
of my father and Blond, and, joining them, pronounced an emphatic,
'Bless you!' and immediately expired!

"Mrs. Blond was conveyed to the Parsonage, in a state approaching to
insensibility: my mother was confined to her apartment; but chose to be
present at the opening of the will; where my father, though nominated as
heir, found himself restricted from assisting his sister, or living
separate from his wife, under forfeiture of the greatest part of his
property to the uncontrolled will of my mother, already independent by
the death of her aunt; or, in case of her demise, from marrying Eliza,
under the like forfeiture to a distant branch of the family.

"To Joseph he left two thousand pounds; and the estate in Cornwall, to
my mother, in addition to her jointure.

"My father felt not the restriction till the arrival of his Ellenor;
but, too well had he proved my mother's disposition, to hazard the
alienation of his fortune from me, who was then about three months old;
he therefore conducted her to Blond's, where she was received with open
arms, and settled to her satisfaction, without infringing the clause in
my grandfather's will.

"That my parents were unhappy, was the first idea I imbibed: and as
reason expanded, every sorrow they felt caused equal anguish in my
heart. No wonder then the settled grief, the pale dejection of my
father, rendered him more dear to me, and imperceptibly added to the
ties of affection; and oft have I wept at the wayward behaviour of my
mother, calculated to make him appear in the eyes of the world as a
tyrant: indeed, her pretended gentleness, and resignation to the choice
of her father, in company, were only to be equalled by her unfeeling
haughtiness and contempt, in private!"

"This is a character, Sir Henry," interrupted Mr. Talton angrily, "Lady
Corbet, I am certain, by no means deserves!"

"Think not, Mr. Talton," answered Sir Henry, "I wish wrongfully to
traduce my mother. Hear me with patience, and be yourself the judge.--

"Pride, delicacy, regard for his child, every consideration, forbade his
exposing the duplicity of my mother; and, indeed, had he attempted
it--it would but have confirmed the opinion, her deep-laid project had
established.

"As home was truly disagreeable to my father, he passed the greatest
part of his time at the Parsonage. His friendship with Blond suffered
no diminution; and the society of his sister and Eliza, soothed even
whilst it added to his affliction, for the irretrievable loss of the
latter.

"When I was seven years old, I first accompanied him in his daily
visits; and, with Edward, received my instruction from the worthy Blond.
The infant Eliza, too, claimed my father's attention, and, as he traced
in her the semblance of her mother, he would indulge a wish that she
might one day hail him by the name of father!

"Thus passed seven years; when my father showed evident symptoms of a
decline; but not all the entreaties of my aunt and Blond could urge him
to seek medical assistance.

"Cease, Joseph," he would say, "to importune me. My disease, my brother,
is past all but the power of death to remedy."

"To describe the agonies of my mind, as I saw him sinking to the grave,
is impossible: and none but a son in danger of losing such a father, can
form an idea of them. At last he yielded to my persuasions to try the
air of France, and accordingly set sail for St. Malo's, attended by
Thomas, and two other domestics.

"During his absence, Mallet, who had so abruptly quitted the service of
Mr. Holly, returned to Caermarthen; and was appointed by my mother to
the stewardship of her landed property. This step was highly
disagreeable to my father, and he determined immediately to return: the
malady of his mind was rapidly destroying his constitution; he
entertained no hopes of recovery, he scarcely wished it; and Sister
Françoise being at that time liberated from her monastic vows, he
escorted her to Plymouth, and then returned to the Hall; where, for the
first time in my life, I heard him reproach my mother for her conduct.
Trivial as the circumstance was, it not only rendered home more
disgusting, but appeared to accelerate his dissolution. At the
Parsonage only he looked for peace; whither, under pretence of
wandering in the grounds, I used to follow him; my mother having
prohibited my visits to Blond, and my father, from affection, not
wishing me ever to be from his presence.

"At last he became so feeble, as to be incapable of leaving the Hall;
and my mother changing her usual mode of conduct, became attentive, and
even assiduous about him; so much so, that for three weeks previously to
the period which bereft me of the best of fathers, she rarely quitted
him, even for necessary rest and refreshment. The evening, however,
before he expired, she had retired for a few hours repose, and the
attendants likewise quitting the room, my father looked expressively at
me some moments, and, pressing my hand to his bosom, said,--'The time
will shortly arrive, my Harry, when I shall moulder into dust, and you
be deprived of him who might almost be termed your only parent. Thy
mother--but no matter!... Little of happiness have I experienced in this
world; and, but for thee, should quit it without regret. Yet remember,
Harry, she is thy mother! and, whatever may hereafter reach thy
knowledge, let it not for a moment blot from thy mind the sacredness of
that tie!

"'You will be the inheritor of my fortunes; your mother is already well
provided for; but I charge and entreat you take care of my Ellenor, and
her son: Sir Horace's restriction reaches not to you: and if hereafter
the child of my brother and Eliza should gain your affection, let not
her want of an adequate fortune be a hindrance to your happiness; too
many have already been sacrificed to avarice. Blond knows my sentiments,
and will add a blessing to your father's; he has a copy of my will: the
original you will find in----.'

"The entrance of my mother prevented his finishing the sentence, and her
strict attention afterwards precluded all opportunity of informing me
where he had put his will.

"In the morning Blond, as usual, came to visit my father; and perceiving
a considerable change for the worse, consented to remain, till the life
he prized above his own, should cease to animate its earthly mansion.

"Worthy, affectionate Blond! dear to my memory, must ever be thy
behaviour in that awful hour; when suppressing thy own sorrow, which oft
and oft obtruded to thine eye, thou spakest comfort to the heart of thy
expiring friend, and supportedst the affliction of a son! Rest ye in
peace, beloved pair! Together ye trod the rugged path of life: pure and
sincere was your friendship; and death, unwilling to divide ye,
summoned both to the same sepulchre!"

The emotions of Sir Henry prevented him from proceeding. At last
recovering, he continued.

"My mother behaved at first with the greatest show of sorrow; and the
tears she shed apparently to the memory of my father, revived every
spark of affection; alas! I perceived not the tempest gathering over me,
and ready to dart its most dreadful vengeance on my head.

"The day after the funeral, had been appointed for the perusal of the
will, which was, my mother said, with other papers of consequence, in a
private drawer of my father's escritoire. She desired the attendance of
Blond, as the nearest friend of my father; and, at the stated time, the
will was produced, in the presence of him, a neighbouring clergyman,
Mallet, Thomas, Owen, and the principal domestics; but what was my
surprise, to find my mother declared not only my sole guardian, but
heiress of every part of my father's property, the entailed estates
excepted; and from which I was to have an allowance of only four hundred
pounds, annually, during my minority!

"Indignation sparkled in the penetrating eyes of Blond; whilst he
vehemently declared the will was a false one! 'Here is a copy of the
real one,' he continued, 'which will prove to your shame, Madam, that my
noble brother has chosen a worthier heir than his wife.'

"Quick as lightning my mother tore it from his hands, and the next
instant, forced it between the bars of the grate; whilst, with equal
vehemence, she retorted the charge of forgery, and threatened to deprive
him of his gown for the nefarious action! Never before had I seen Blond
betray the least symptom of passion; and as affection for my mother
prevented my regretting this deprivation of nearly two thirds of my
fortune, I, after the first moment of surprise, endeavoured to mediate
between them; but Blond still declared my father had left me the whole
of his fortune, under the guardianship of the elder St. Ledger and
himself: and my mother as resolutely declared the will produced, was the
real one, and that by which I should abide; and insulted Blond to such a
degree, as a mercenary intermeddler in the family, that, unable to bear
it, he hastily left the Hall. The speed with which he returned to the
Parsonage, joined to the agitation of his spirits, brought on a fever;
which indignation in seeing me thus deprived of my rights, prevented him
from paying proper regard to; this was increased, the following Sunday,
by his getting wet in going to church; where, unable to change his
clothes, he was necessitated to perform divine service in those he had
on. The consequence was, that before the end of the second day, he was
confined to his bed!

"During this, my mother, though exulting in the success of her artifice,
behaved to me with her wonted show of affection; but Blond getting
hourly worse, at last entreated to speak with me; and then it was my
mother first unmasked herself to me!

"She peremptorily refused to let me go--the servant said his master was
expiring! I begged, conjured--at last insisted! But, looking at me with
that haughty contempt, she had too often regarded my father
with--'Recollect yourself, young gentleman,' she said: 'you shall not
go, but where, and to whom I please!--So far at least I can control you.
Insist!' she repeated with increasing hauteur: 'henceforth, Sir, this
apartment is the boundary of your steps, till you have learned to show
more respect to the will of a mother!'

"She quitted the room, leaving me confounded at a behaviour so
unexpected.

"The expiring Blond, however, took full possession of my mind; in him I
was losing a second father; and as I could not but regard my mother's
denial as unfeeling and unjust, I determined to obey the impulse of my
heart: but, on trying the door, I found it locked, and, after some
ineffectual attempts to force it, I was obliged to desist; the window,
however, presented the means of escape; I instantly got out, and lightly
dropping to the ground, hastened through the plantations, to the
Parsonage, where I found my worthy uncle, indeed expiring. As soon as he
beheld me, he extended his hand,

"'Welcome, Sir Henry! From the answer your mother returned to my
request, this was a happiness, with which I dared not flatter myself:
nor could I, as she desired, transmit what I had to impart, in writing.
The urgency of the moment must prevent my dwelling on particulars:--take
this packet, my Henry; given to my care, by your deceased father, to be
delivered to you, on your attaining your one-and-twentieth year, or
before if occasion required.--Keep it carefully from the knowledge of
your mother; the contents will explain the reason, and in part account
for her late conduct: for, the will she produced was forged!--the real
one if not destroyed, you will find in the closet of the secret
apartment: your father, Sir Henry, left you the undivided possession of
his fortune!'

"These were nearly the last words he pronounced, as he expired in less
than an hour after.

"I wonder not, my Eliza, at your tears; and a richer offering than
those which spring from filial affection, cannot ascend to the throne of
mercy!

"I shall pass over the distress of our friends at this juncture; your
own hearts may best do justice to their feelings. It was late in the
evening, when I slowly directed my steps to the Hall; where I
immediately retired to my own room; but, a few minutes after, was
summoned to attend my mother in the apartment where my father died.

"I obeyed.--But ah, who can paint the rage with which she addressed me!
After upbraiding me for leaving the Hall, she demanded for what Blond
had so earnestly desired to see me?

"'Your own heart, Madam,' I replied, 'may best answer that question. The
will produced, he says, was not that of my father.'

"'Insolence unparalleled!' she exclaimed. 'Know, Sir, the estates and
property I hold, were bequeathed me by Sir Horace. Your father for years
supported his vagrant sister, and thereby forfeited them to me!'

"'It is strange then, Lady Corbet,' I replied, 'you did not exert your
right during the life of my father; and not make him will them to you
after his decease: but you mistake, Madam; my father never afforded my
aunt the least pecuniary assistance, nor can you prove it. Her
maintenance has been at the hand of Blond: he was not forbidden to
succour a sister, though my father was.--Why are you agitated,
Madam?--Is there not wealth enough for both, without using illegal means
to enrich yourself: or did my mother think her Henry needed the severity
she has this day shown, to induce his assent to her enjoying the whole
of his fortune, had she wished it?'

"I took her hand; but, casting me from her, she said with increasing
agitation--'The severity you complain of, boy! is nothing to what you
shall experience for this behaviour! From these windows you cannot
escape; this room is your prison; and here you may ruminate, and learn
to dread the anger of your mother!'

"'Ruminate indeed!' I sighed, as she closed and locked the door--'for
inexplicable are thy proceedings.'--But the packet Blond had given me,
he said, would in some measure account for her conduct; to that I
resolved to apply, and, seating myself, broke the seal of this, my
father's last bequest."

Sir Henry drew the packet from his bosom, and, half suppressing a sigh,
read as follows:




CHAPTER II.


     "When these lines, my beloved Henry, reach your hands, time will
     have left only a tender remembrance of the name of father! Yet I
     trust the affection you evinced for him in life, will make you
     regard this his last (though secret) request, and advice.

     "Too oft have you heard the relation of my early misfortunes, to
     need a repetition here; but prepare, my Harry, for a tale you
     little expect, and which reached my knowledge a few months after my
     marriage.

     "Some years prior to that event, your mother bestowed her
     affections on Mallet, her father's steward; who, at last, asked her
     of his master in marriage; but Mr. Holly refused him with the
     proudest disdain, and threatened to dismiss him, if he ever again
     renewed the subject. Miss Holly proved more favourable to his
     addresses, and at the time Sir Horace demanded her as a wife for
     me, was in a state advancing to become a mother!"

"Just Powers!" exclaimed Mr. Talton. "Do I hear aright? or can I credit
the assertion?"

"My father's veracity, Sir," faltered Sir Henry, "is not to be doubted;
even if my mother's subsequent conduct had not confirmed the
circumstance as true."

"Proceed--proceed, dear Henry!" cried the agitated Louise. Sir Henry
resumed the relation of his father.

     "Alarmed at a circumstance which must inevitably have exposed her
     shame, she fled for protection to her aunt, and by a well-feigned
     tale, not only induced that lady to receive her; but to promise
     secrecy respecting her state, and the place of her retreat: whilst
     Mallet, dreading a discovery of their illicit connexion, withdrew
     to France; and four months after Miss Holly was delivered of a
     daughter, which the aunt undertook to rear; and, at the desire of
     her niece, who was wearied of solitude and restraint, waited on Mr.
     Holly, to intercede in her behalf. He admitted their excuses,
     consented to receive his daughter, and to bury the past in
     oblivion; but to prevent her again disappointing him, he informed
     Sir Horace of her expected return, and with him projected the
     scheme which plunged me into misery!

     "A few months after our ill-fated marriage, Mr. Holly's sister
     died, leaving the whole of her fortune to your mother in secret
     trust, as I not two months since discovered, for her infant
     daughter. But avarice is your mother's motto, as well as Sir
     Horace's; to that she yielded, and, smothering every softer
     feeling, abandoned the child to the care of its father; and,
     appropriating the money to her own use, sent a peasant with the
     infant Louise to Mallet at Rennes!"

Sir Henry was here interrupted by Louise, who, bursting into tears,
said--"Ah the dreaded secret is explained! Oh, Harland, will you not
now despise the woman to whom you are united? The conduct of her parents
must stamp indelible shame on her name!"

"The virtues of Louise," said Harland tenderly, "are all her own, nor
can the actions of her parents lessen her for a moment in my regard."

Sir Henry paused a moment, till the violence of her emotion had
subsided; then continued:

     "The discovery of these circumstances by the officiousness of the
     woman she employed to transport the child, considerably degraded
     your mother, in my opinion: had she, indeed, been as amiable as she
     endeavoured to appear in the eye of the world, she might in time
     have obliterated Eliza from my heart; but the pity I had felt for
     her, as a victim, like myself, of parental tyranny, was then turned
     to contempt and disgust: she perceived the change, and soon learned
     the cause, and from that time marked me as the object of her
     vengeance.

     "Already a favourite with Sir Horace, she easily insinuated herself
     into his affections, by continual coincidence with his opinion, and
     the appearance of personal attachment; and the ascendancy once
     gained, bent him entirely to her will. His anger to Ellenor, which
     had been gradually subsiding, was by her revived, and artfully
     fanned to the greatest height: whilst the coldness of my behaviour
     was exaggerated, and imputed to the affection I still retained for
     Miss Elvyn. Enraged at the bare supposition, he made his will,
     restricting me from assisting one, or ever marrying the other. Not
     satisfied with this, however, as your mother became seriously
     indisposed, and fearing I should disregard the sacrifice of my
     fortune if again at liberty; he determined to accomplish the design
     he had before projected of uniting Eliza to my brother.

     "The deaths of Mr. Holly and Sir Horace, were followed, my Henry,
     by your birth; nor till you are yourself a father, can you conceive
     with what transports I pressed you to my bosom. In you I
     anticipated a future source of happiness; and as my fondness
     increased, you became with me (be not surprised, my Henry, if
     chance have not yet discovered it) likewise an object of thy
     mother's indifference--and hatred! But, for your sake, I buried my
     sorrows in my own bosom; enduring every species of behaviour
     studiously calculated to drive me to a separation; and, could I
     have been assured you would have enjoyed the property after her
     decease, I would not have hesitated a moment in my determination;
     but too well did I know her principles to place the power in her
     hands.

     "The return of my Ellenor and her infant, increased the anxiety
     which preyed on my mind; though I trust, she will do justice to
     her brother, in believing his heart never for an instant coincided
     with the will of her father.

     "For years your mother continued the same unwearied course of
     conduct; affecting an outward appearance of submission to me, and
     affection to you; whilst in secret she rendered home distasteful,
     and embittered every moment I was obliged to pass in her society.

     "How different the conduct of Eliza! She, though united to a man
     she did not love, learned to esteem him for his virtues; cheerfully
     fulfilling the duties of her station, she enjoyed the sweets of
     friendship, and experienced content from internal rectitude. What a
     contrast!

     "The hours I passed at the Parsonage, with friends so beloved, in
     assisting to form the mind of my Henry, I need not recount; but,
     comparatively happy as they were, they could not compensate for the
     behaviour of your mother, which at last has forced me to an early
     grave.

     "At your intercession, I consented to visit France; but receiving
     intelligence Mallet had revisited Wales, I as hastily returned, and
     found your mother had, indeed, renewed her acquaintance with this
     her early lover! Unfeeling--insulting woman! couldst thou not stay
     a few short weeks, till death had left thee free to accept the
     lover of thy choice!--Yet even this I could have excused; nay,
     perhaps, have pardoned: but from the private room, I heard them
     exulting in the prospect of my death, and projecting plans to
     deprive you, my beloved boy, of your inheritance; but the measures
     I have pursued, I trust, will render Mallet's schemes abortive.

     "By this means, I likewise learned that the infant Louise had been
     deserted by its equally unnatural father, who left it exposed at
     the Convent gate of St. Ursule. Even your mother, for a moment,
     reprobated the inhumanity of the action; till he informed her the
     Abbess had received, and consented to rear the child, as a
     foundling from Heaven; but whether it still existed, he knew not.
     If it do, (and be it your care, my Harry, to inquire) I charge you
     to assist the unfortunate girl; yet likewise respect your mother,
     nor wilfully seek to raise a blush of shame on her cheek: let the
     consideration, that she is your mother, induce you to pardon what
     otherwise you might condemn!

     "To you she has ever preserved the appearance of maternal
     affection, and, should you inherit her fortune, remember thirty
     thousand pounds of it was left by her aunt, for the deserted
     Louise; and to her let it be restored. But should Mallet, whose
     hatred to you, I believe, is as unbounded as his influence over
     her, induce her to bestow it on himself or others; forget not, my
     son, she is your sister, and provide for her according to the
     dictates of your own generous heart; to which, I must likewise
     leave the care of my Ellenor and her son.

     "Large is the fortune you will inherit, and the years of your
     minority will considerably add to it. Sir Horace ever designed to
     give his Ellenor fifty thousand pounds, which sum, should she be
     re-united to the worthy but misguided Howard, you can present her
     with; but should her Edward still be denied the knowledge of a
     father, I would have you secure to him, in addition, the estate I
     purchased of Howels.

     "And now, my Henry, let me mention the subject, which, though
     sinking to the grave, will still maintain the superiority of hope
     in my bosom,--that the child of her I once fondly thought to have
     called my own, may become your wife. With satisfaction, I have
     perceived your youthful partiality for each other, and cherished
     every spark of growing attachment. Yet if another should gain your
     maturer affection, Heaven forbid that I should thwart your
     inclination, or be the means, however indirectly, of uniting you to
     a woman you could not prefer to the rest of her sex. Should you,
     therefore, behold another with the eye of prepossession, at least,
     regard Eliza as a sister, and give her a portion accordingly.

     "And here, my Henry, let me rest. Though scarcely can I bring
     myself to resign my pen; but it must be.--Harry, dear beloved
     boy--dearer far to my heart than life itself, farewell! May every
     blessing this transitory state affords, fall to your lot, till we
     meet in those realms where eternal happiness rewards the virtuous
     and afflicted!

               "H. CORBET."

"Surprise and concern," continued Sir Henry, as he folded up the
packet, "for some time absorbed every faculty. Again I perused the
papers, which opened a mother's character to my view, and which the
occurrences of that day had marked as too just. Yet, for what purpose
could she confine me?--had she not succeeded in obtaining the estates?
at what further then did she aim? I could not resolve the question, but
insensibly reverted to the death of my father. The bed he expired on,
was before me, my destined couch of rest. Nature revolted at the idea,
and revived, with additional poignancy, the remembrance of his last
moments.

"'And Blond too is gone!' I cried, rising, and wildly pacing the room:
'and she who should prove the friend and guardian of her son, too
surely seeks his destruction!--But, perhaps, the will is not destroyed:
no one but Blond knew where it was placed.'

"My mother had secured my father's keys; but some months prior to his
decease, he had presented me with one of the private room; which had my
mother known, she would, most probably, have chosen another apartment
for my confinement.

"With a palpitating heart I unlocked the door, and hastily advanced to
the closet, where Blond had said it was deposited; but in vain I
searched; no will could I discover.

"'Too surely, it is destroyed,' I sighed; and at that moment my ear was
saluted by the voice of my mother in the adjoining apartment, which,
indeed, was her own; and, by the familiarity of her address, soon
discovered Mallet to be her companion. I was, indeed, on the spot whence
my father mentioned overhearing a former discourse. Listening
attentively, I heard my mother say--'You are wrong, Charles. Confining
him in the room where Corbet died, is the only way to effect my purpose.
Naturally of a pensive disposition, the recollection of his father,
forced on his mind by every object, cannot fail still more to deject
him. Could I but find this accursed will, and destroy it, I should not
fear him; but as it is--there I will keep him, till I either turn his
senses, or have a fair pretence for saying he is insane; which may
answer as well. Let me once get the entire management of his estates, it
is all I desire.'

"'I never doubted your abilities, Caroline,' said Mallet, 'but cannot
clearly comprehend how you can accuse him of insanity, when the evidence
of the servants must prove to the contrary; and as for really turning
his senses--your hopes, I am afraid, are rather too sanguine: Sir Henry
is soft in heart; not the head.--There is an easier way to settle your
pretensions. Were Sir Henry at rest with his father, no one would have a
just right to dispute the validity of the present will; which, if he
live to come of age, is a thing not at all unlikely to happen.--If he
were dead--'

"'The entailed estates,' interrupted my mother, 'would go to the heir at
law, and I should lose eight thousand a year.--So, no more on that
subject, Sir. He is the son of Corbet, of the man I hated; but I will
not consent to embrue my hands in his blood, though I should glory in
reducing him to the state in which you left Louise!'

"'Well, well, Caroline,' said Mallet, 'I yield: if you can accomplish
your design, far be it from me to dissuade you from it.'

"They proceeded to settle their future plans, and I retired to the
outward apartment, in a state nearly answering my mother's wishes.

"In the morning, Mallet brought my breakfast. I started from my seat at
his entrance; his injuries to my father, his villanous intentions toward
myself, rose on my tortured imagination, and hurried me nearly to
madness! Impelled by the phrenzy of the moment, I hurled my chair at him
with the utmost force, and levelled him with the floor! The folly of the
action, the moment I had committed it, served to restore my
recollection; for would it not aid my mother in her intentions to accuse
me of insanity? Mallet, perhaps, believed me then deranged, for,
springing on his feet, he with the greatest trepidation hurried out of
the room. He, however, took care to secure the door, and I was left to
reflect on my want of forbearance to one who, I was certain, would not
pass by the opportunity of injuring me. My prognostic was right: in less
than half an hour, my mother entered the room; her eye glanced with
secret satisfaction on the fragments of china scattered on the floor;
but, advancing to me, she haughtily asked the meaning of the outrage I
had committed? My heart swelled to agony at the question, though
certainly to have been expected. I could not avow the motive which had
instigated me.--I could not utter a falsehood: and, at last, throwing
myself on the bed, covered my face, and found a slight relief in
groans.

"Still now do her contemptuous taunts vibrate on my ear, as she told me
my new-acquired dignities would not sit graceful on me, if I knew not
better how to sustain the character of a gentleman!

"'They sit not easy on me, indeed, Madam,' I replied with a sigh. 'Would
to Heaven, that he who has borne them since my birth, still existed;
then should I not want a friend--a parent!'

"'No more of this insolence, Sir,' she retorted;--'lest you make me
forget I bear that title: and remember, it is in my power to prove an
enemy!'

"'It is indeed!' I repeated. 'I had at the moment, forgotten you gave
me birth!'

"She darted a look of scorn and anger at me, and desiring me
henceforward to behave with the duty which became me as a son and ward,
left me again to the torments of reflection.

"At noon, Mallet brought my dinner; and an hour after took it away,
untouched.

"For a week I was regularly served by him, and in that time, by means of
the closet, learned that the clergyman who was present with Blond at the
reading of the will, had been presented with the Corbet living; though,
as he refused to resign the house where he had long resided, Mrs. Blond
was permitted to remain at the Parsonage, at least till a proper
opportunity should occur of turning her out: likewise, that my mother,
wishing to preserve the character she had ever maintained in the opinion
of the world, immediately granted her request, that Blond, as he had
entreated, might be interred in the same vault with my father.

"This act of complaisance, however, was soon followed by one I little
expected.

"On the death of Sir Horace, my father, regarding the legacy bequeathed
to Blond as far less than he had a right to expect, would have added a
considerable donation to it; but this Blond refused, and was at last,
with difficulty, prevailed on to accept a small but pleasant estate,
which adjoined the Parsonage lands. This, however, from some neglect,
for which I cannot account, but most probably from Blond's unwillingness
to receive it, had never been properly assigned to him; though the rent
was constantly paid to him, and he regarded as the owner.

"This estate, my father, a few months before his decease, informed me he
had, with one more considerable, left in the fullest manner to his
brother. Nevertheless, my mother now reclaimed it and, as no writings
could be produced to prove it Mrs. Blond's, basely wrested from her the
principal means of her subsistence.

"Nor did she longer delay the execution of her devices to make me appear
insane; but one morning came to the door, and gently tapping, called me
by name, entreating to be admitted.

"'Your Ladyship,' I replied, 'has secured the means of entrance at all
times: why then demand it of me?'

"'What does he mean?' I heard her say, in a voice of concern, to her
maid who accompanied her: 'Henry, dear Henry, I conjure you, open the
door!'

"'If you, Madam,' I again answered, 'had intrusted me with the key, I
might have complied with your request: but at present would wish to know
for what offence I am treated as a prisoner.'

"'Heavens! how wildly he talks!' she continued to her companion; and
with greater energy begged and entreated to be admitted: whilst every
answer I could return, was by her artifice regarded as a proof of my
insanity by her servant; who did not fail to exaggerate what she had
heard to her companions; and in a few days it was believed, that I was
actually deranged.

"I learned the success of my mother's plan, by my usual channel of
intelligence; and for the future resolved to persevere in silence; but
it was of no avail; and some months passed, during which it was affirmed
that my confinement was from my own choice.

"In the course of this time, I had frequently renewed my search for the
will, though without effect; but one day, in examining the contents of a
secret drawer, I discovered bank-notes to the value of seven hundred
pounds, which I made no scruple of securing; and determined, should an
opportunity offer, to leave the Hall, and put myself under the
protection of St. Ledger.

"Providence, in this respect proved favourable; for, a few weeks after,
I was awakened in the night, by a person moaning at my door: thinking
it some new device of my mother, I disregarded it, till I heard the
voice of Thomas lamenting the supposed loss of my reason. I then
hesitated not a moment, but, springing out of bed, soon convinced him
the account he had received of me was false. This worthy servant's joy
was unbounded, and he promised to effect my liberation in the course of
a week; hinting at the same time, that he suspected his lady
participated in the disposition of Sir Horace.

"Thomas kept his word. He soon discovered Mallet was intrusted with the
key; he therefore ventured into his room one night, and perceiving him
in a sound sleep, took the key from his pocket, lightly stepped to my
apartment, and, with an expression of joy in his countenance not to be
described, proclaimed me at liberty.

"Little preparation was necessary; and, bidding my faithful old servant
farewell, I directed my steps to the Parsonage.

"My aunt and Mrs. Blond immediately rose on hearing who it was; and
after a short conference, I prevailed on them to receive part of the
money I had obtained, as their income was then reduced to little more
than one hundred pounds; for Blond possessed too benevolent a
disposition ever to think of amassing money. He had truly regarded his
parishioners as his children; as such their wants ever found the
readiest relief; and to the stranger his heart, his hand, and his door
had ever been open!

"After an affectionate adieu, I hastened to the church, where, for some
time, I indulged in an unrestrained sorrow over the ashes of my father
and Blond.

"The appearance of day at length warned me to retire; and tearing myself
from their sacred remains, I ran to the village, where I procured a
horse, and thence directed my course toward London.

"St. Ledger was from home; but I was received with the greatest
cordiality by his amiable wife, your beloved sister Françoise,
Louise--."

"Sister Françoise, my brother!" cried Louise with vivacity. "Ah, pardon
my interruption: but tell me--satisfy my curiosity respecting her."

"In a few words, Louise. St. Ledger, the man she was privately united
to, was in his youth the bosom-friend of my father: on his travels, he
saw and became enamoured of the amiable Françoise; and on her father's
refusing him her hand, prevailed on her to consent to a private
marriage. Their intercourse had continued some time, when he was
discovered by Monsieur de Colline, and the consequences which followed
were as you recited them, from the words of Sister Brigide. Françoise
was delivered of a son, who was doomed by the grandfather to an early
grave; but was preserved and secretly conveyed to St. Ledger, by the old
confident. This soon reached the knowledge of Monsieur de Colline, who
in the first paroxysm of passion, would have sacrificed her life, for
the innocent one she had preserved. He spared her, but on condition of
her taking an oath, never to divulge the retreat of Françoise to St.
Ledger, or to undeceive his daughter respecting the death of her infant;
for he well knew that whilst she supposed her child living, she would
not consent to retire from the world. Poor Françoise was deceived, and
imagining herself bereaved of both husband and offspring, gladly took
shelter from the anger and reproaches of her father and sisters, in the
Convent of St. Ursule. St. Ledger, in the mean time, after vainly
demanding his wife of her father, searched the country for some miles
round; till, imposed on by a fabulous tale of her death, he, in a state
of mind truly disconsolate, returned with his infant son to England.

"My father went to France at the time of Monsieur de Colline's death.
The circumstances attending the liberation of Françoise were too
publicly discoursed of to escape his knowledge, and he immediately
proceeded to Rennes, where, introducing himself as the intimate friend
of her husband, she joyfully accepted his offer of escorting her to
England.

"Françoise had written to St. Ledger, who, with an impatience equal to
his regard for this amiable woman, was hastening with his son to
France, to meet her, when my father unexpectedly presented her to his
embrace at Portsmouth, where St. Ledger was waiting for a favourable
wind, to convey him to the opposite coast.

"Since that time their happiness has never had the least interruption;
except from the hymeneal expedition of my friend Henry. They are,
however, perfectly satisfied with his choice of a bride, who, on her
part, appears sincerely attached to the parents of her husband.

"The elder St. Ledger, on his return in the evening, received me with
his usual friendship. To him my father had never divulged the secret of
his unhappiness; nor could I reveal it: but on his inquiring the reason
of my journey to London, I related what had passed between me and my
mother since the death of my father, and the means she had used to make
me appear insane. St. Ledger listened to my tale with complaisance; but
regarded my conduct as proceeding from youthful folly; and plainly told
me, he should sooner credit the idea of my insanity, than any thing to
the prejudice of Lady Corbet, who, he was well assured, loved me too
well, and was too just, wilfully to injure me or any one! He, however,
requested I would make his house my home as long as I remained in town;
and, at my entreaty, forbore to inform my mother where I was. The
precaution, however, was useless, as Lady Dursley accidentally saw me,
and wrote to my mother, who immediately came to London.

"With our subsequent rencontre at Sir John's, you are already
acquainted. My mother, on her first arrival in town, designed to have
called on St. Ledger; but, understanding he was at his country seat,
deemed it unnecessary; and, having recovered her emigrant, took leave of
her friends, and reconducted me to the Hall, where, a few days after, I
was again placed in confinement.




CHAPTER III.


"The visits of Mr. Talton in some degree restored my liberty: but
solitude was then become my choice; my mind, by constantly dwelling on
the waywardness of my fate, became gloomy; and my wretchedness was
farther encreased, by hearing the exultations of my mother, at the
subjection to which she had reduced me.

"Mallet, nevertheless, wished my death, under an apprehension that I
might, one day, discover the means which had been used to defraud me of
my possessions; and repeatedly endeavoured to persuade her to let him
administer such drugs as, without leaving any signs of violence, would
quickly send me to the grave.--This, however, my mother as often
opposed; and, at last declared, if I died, she would marry Talton.

"This arrangement by no means satisfied Mallet, whose real motive, I
believe, was an idea, that if I were dead, he might persuade or terrify
her into a marriage with himself.

"In the mean time, my mother continued her usual mode of behaviour
toward me; occasionally allowing me the liberty of rambling in the
surrounding plantations, though with two or three servants to watch me,
lest I should again attempt to escape.

"Thus passed more than a twelve-month, when I was taken ill; I loathed
my food; my strength failed me; and repose became a stranger to my
pillow. Frequently I passed the night in pacing my room; or, when the
moon afforded sufficient light, in contemplating the venerable structure
where the ashes of my father rested, or in tracing the different haunts
where he had so often attended me in my juvenile rambles.

"One night, as usual, I deserted my bed, my mind brooding on the ills
which might befall my Eliza and her friends, if fate should consign me
to the tomb; an event I thought very likely to happen;--restless, and
not knowing where to fly for relief, I, after some time wandering about
the chamber, unlocked the door of the private room; and, almost
unconsciously, advanced to the spot which had afforded me such a source
of unhappiness.

"Mallet was with my mother, and I soon found a disagreement, of no
trivial nature, had taken place.

"'--I speak more from a consideration of your safety, Lady Corbet, than
my own,' I heard him say. 'I have many resources which you have not;
and--I again repeat it--whilst Sir Henry lives, not only your property,
but your life also, is in danger: and, a moment's consideration would
make you sensible of what the consequence must be, should Mrs. Blond or
Mrs. Crawton seek the protection of Talton. They have eloquence as well
as you, nor might even their beauty vainly plead in their favour!'

"'Charles, no more!' said my mother. 'You have instigated me thus far,
nor will I now leave half my scheme unaccomplished. If you, Sir, are so
easily intimidated--I am not! Let them seek his protection--it will be
of no avail. I have Talton too securely in my toils, to fear any
application they may make!'

"'Perhaps not!' continued Mallet. 'I do not like trusting to a chance,
when you can proceed on a certainty. What would avail all your fine-spun
policy, if Sir Henry should ever discover the will?--Your ruin must
inevitably follow; nor will a charge of insanity then avail. With such a
proof in his favour, he will soon find friends to support him; and you
may then wish you had followed my advice. If he were dead, you would be
at least secured in your present property.'

"'Would then he were dead!' ejaculated my mother.--'But it is impossible
he should ever discover the will; though where Corbet could put it, I
cannot think. But it must and shall be found--and soon too!'

"Their discourse ceased; but I was too much lost in reflection to remark
it; and stood expecting its continuation, when my mother entered my
apartment. An exclamation of surprise and dismay escaped her, on
beholding the private room open, and anxiously advancing, she discovered
me, my head resting against a pilaster, and my hand pressed to my
beating temples.

"'What mean you, Sir?--How came you here?--How dare you enter this room,
without my permission?' she angrily demanded--her eye quickly glancing
from me to every part.

"'The same reason which brings you here, Madam,' I replied, 'first
induced me to enter: the hope and expectation of finding my father's
will.'

"'Your father's will!' she repeated. 'What means the boy?'

"'Not to establish my rights on a mother's destruction,' I replied:
'though most undoubtedly to do justice to those she has wronged. Oh, my
mother! in mercy, go no farther; nor thus lay up a source of
wretchedness for thy latter years. Life smiles gaily now, the meridian
of a summer's day; but recollect, that night, however late, must still
succeed. Will not my mother's soul then shrink from its glooms, and
dread to meet the record of her actions?'

"'Knowest thou to whom thou art speaking?' she cried, darting a look of
mingled scorn and fear at me.

"'To my mother!' I replied: 'and as such let her for once listen to me
with patience!--You must be conscious, Madam, I am not ignorant of the
measures you have pursued, to obtain the greatest part of my father's
property; neither for what reason you now regard and treat me as an
enemy. Believe me, you injure me, if you imagine that for the sake of
regaining those possessions, I should ever wish to expose you to the
censure of the world. Far from my heart be such a thought! I want not
superfluous wealth; for me the fortune inherited from my forefathers, is
amply sufficient. Freely then enjoy what you have obtained; by me you
shall never be molested. All I ask is the restoration of Blond's
property, and the society of my friends.'

"'Wretches!' she exclaimed. 'You too, I suppose, like your father, would
foster the vagrant Ellenor! But let her, and your friends, as you call
them, beware!'

"'She never injured you, Madam,' I cried; 'and recollect, she is the
sister of the man, to whom you bound yourself by the most solemn ties
before the face of Heaven. For myself I plead not; but as you hope for
mercy hereafter, show it to her and the unhappy Elvyns.'

"'And art thou to prescribe to me?' she contemptuously exclaimed.--'To
your chamber this instant, Sir; I shall not apply to you for guidance:
and, as you value your existence, dare not again to give such licence to
your tongue!--Begone, Sir!'

"I obeyed; taking the key from the door as I passed.

"She instantly followed me, and peremptorily demanded it.

"'Excuse me, Madam,' I replied, 'I cannot yield it. It was given me by
my father; and, as master of this mansion, I have an undoubted right to
retain it.'

"'Master of this mansion!' she franticly repeated. 'Never whilst I
exist.--Thinkest thou I will stoop to acknowledge thy superiority?'

"'Had I not been willing to acknowledge yours, Lady Corbet,' I answered,
'I had not thus long submitted to the restriction you have ordained;
though I do not promise much longer patiently to bear it!'

"She regarded me with a frenzied eye--'Dost thou threaten too?--Severely
shalt thou suffer for this! This instant, Sir, deliver the key.'

"'For God's sake, my mother,' I cried, 'do not thus oppress me: long
have I borne each ill you have inflicted, and nearly without a murmur;
in pity, then, spare me; nor thus add to the sorrows of a heart that is
already nearly broken.'

"'No trifling, Sir; my purpose is fixed; nor, by all that is sacred,
will I be dissuaded from it! I will not be subjected to your control, or
longer kept in awe by your pretensions!'

"'I do not wish it,' I cried; 'all I ask, is that which, if not
possessed by me, cannot devolve to you.'

"She stamped with rage.--'The key, Sir; this moment give it me.'

"'I have already told your Ladyship, I cannot--I will not yield it!'

"Never before had my mother experienced such opposition from me. Her
passions, already raised by the insinuations of Mallet, hurried her
nearly to madness; she snatched a pen-knife from the table where I had
been writing, her lips quivered as she grasped my arm--'Harry--if thou
darest again refuse--thou forfeitest thy life!'

"'Then take my life,' I cried; the tears starting to my eyes, and so
agitated that I could scarcely speak; 'when a mother seeks to destroy
it, what hand shall be raised for its preservation!--Yet think not by
depriving me of existence, to secure your safety. A charge of lunacy
may screen the action from the knowledge of the world; but there is an
all-seeing eye, Lady Corbet, that would mark it, and make you for ever
dread to meet the face of Heaven!'

"She regarded me with an agitation, that too plainly showed the state of
her mind, then cast me from her with violence, and hurled the knife to
the further part of the room. I was hastening to secure it, when Mallet,
either for the purpose of assisting her to search for the will, or from
a motive of a darker nature, entered the chamber. He started on
beholding me, and, with a well-counterfeited surprise, asked the reason
of my being up at such an unseasonable hour?

"'Where the assassin dwells,' I replied, 'it is requisite to watch,
instead of sleeping!'

"'Assassin!' he repeated as he advanced; when perceiving the knife in my
hand--'What madness, Sir Henry, have you been attempting? A strait
waistcoat I believe will soon terminate your nightly exploits!'

"My mother here informed him of her finding me in the private room, and
of my refusing to resign the key.--'A circumstance,' he significantly
returned, 'at which I am not in the least surprised. Your Ladyship will
most probably be very soon convinced, that the measures I advised were
highly requisite.'

"My mother regarded him with an expressive countenance, but was silent,
and Mallet continued--'It is not yet too late to rectify the error; and
as I know the necessity for it, I shall take the liberty of
dispossessing Sir Henry of the means of future entrance to that
apartment.' Then addressing me--'I have no time to lose in persuasion,
young gentleman: if you do not peaceably resign the key, I shall use
effectual means to obtain it!'

"'Never from my hands shall you receive it,' I indignantly cried: 'nor
whilst I have life will I part with it. I know the blackened purpose of
your heart too well; but Corbet still has a friend, who will deliver him
from your machinations.'

"'What mean you by that insinuation, Sir?' he ferociously exclaimed.

"'Look on this wasting form,' I replied, 'and let that answer
thee.--Wretch that thou art, could not thy injuries to my father satisfy
thee, but thou must also seek to destroy his son!'

"He did not receive this imprudent accusation calmly, but seized me with
a strength I had not power to oppose.--'Since you have taxed me with
such an intention,' he exclaimed, 'it shall not be for nothing. Your
life has long been in my power, though I have weakly spared it!'

"My mother called to him to forbear; but rage had bereaved him of all
prudence or consideration, and, wresting the pen-knife from me, he
attempted to plunge it into my bosom.

"Quick as lightning, my mother caught his hand, and again commanded him
to desist, or she would instantly alarm the family.

"This declaration recalled him to a sense of his own safety: he sullenly
obeyed; but at the same time asserted that the provocation he had
received, was more than sufficient to authorise what he had done; and,
with many bitter invectives, declared, my insanity should be no defence
for offering him such insults!

"'Your excuse, Sir,' I exclaimed, 'is too absurd to pass even with a
madman; and I am not yet sufficiently bereaved of my senses, to need an
explanation of the motives which instigated you to seek my destruction!'

"'Then I will not attempt one,' he fiercely replied; 'but boldly
say--Corbet Hall cannot--nor shall any longer contain two masters!'

"My mother regarded him with a look of ineffable scorn.--'Surely thou
too art insane!--Know you not, Sir, where I am, no one shall claim the
title of master? and as you value my good opinion, never again dare to
entertain such an expectation.'

"Mallet was abashed, and, after some moments pause, said--'Do I rightly
understand you, Lady Corbet?'

"'It appears not, Sir,' answered my mother; 'or you would not thus
insolently assume the privilege of acting contrary to my injunction! But
from this time, Sir, learn that I expect implicit obedience to my will:
if not--as I have raised, you shall likewise find it is in my power to
replace you in your original obscurity!'--'To you, Sir,' addressing me,
'I shall only say, that unless you resign the key, I will immediately
bring a charge of lunacy against you: nor shall you ever again pass
beyond the walls of your present apartment!'--Then ordering Mallet to
follow her, with an air of the sternest dignity, she quitted the room.

"Mallet knew my mother's temper too well, to irritate her, by a further
opposition to her commands; he therefore slowly directed his steps
toward the door, when perceiving she was beyond hearing, he turned to me
in a menacing manner--'Next time we meet, young man, your life shall
surely pay the forfeit for this night's adventure!'

"He closed the door; leaving me in a state of wretchedness surpassing
aught I had then experienced. To resign the key, was to yield the only
means by which, as I imagined, I could ever hope to obtain my father's
will; and would be consigning not only myself, but my aunt, Mrs. Blond,
and all who were dear to me, to ruin!--To retain it--or indeed to remain
where I was, would be equally destructive; for Mallet, I doubted not,
would keep his word.

"I stood for some time nearly stupified with horror. 'Is no resource
left to save me?' I at last sighed, advancing to the window. The morning
had dawned, and a gypsey I had two or three times spoken to, was
crossing the lawn toward the house. To me he came the angel of
deliverance; and, allowing myself scarcely a moment's consideration, I
broke a square of glass--for the windows were too well secured to admit
of my opening them---and called to him.

"He heard me, and immediately approached; when tying five guineas in my
handkerchief, I threw it to him, and briefly telling him my situation,
promised him twenty more if he would aid me to escape.

"He declared himself willing to assist me; but that he knew not how to
effect my liberation. No time, I was certain, was to be lost; I
therefore directed him to an outhouse, whence he procured a ladder,
which he placed against the window, and breaking another square of
glass, severed the wood-work that divided them; with some difficulty I
got through, and thus, once more, found myself at liberty!

"I gave him his promised reward, and hastened, as fast as my feeble
state would admit, to the Parsonage; where my aunt and Mrs. Blond, on
hearing what had passed, urged me instantly to fly; but not choosing to
put the friendship of St. Ledger again to a trial, or knowing where else
to go, my aunt advised my seeking the protection of her Howard, whose
generous heart, and the remembrance of his Ellenor, she doubted not,
would render him favourable to my suit.

"You were then at Yarmouth; for my aunt had constant intelligence of
your destinations from the time of your quitting Brighthelmstone; and
refusing the money she would have forced me to accept, I set out on foot
for Hay. But my escape was already discovered. Mallet, early in the
morning, entered my room, and finding me gone, immediately dispatched
the servants in pursuit of me.

"This I learned from old Owen, and was again obliged to have recourse to
the gypsey, who, knowing the urgency of the moment, refused the offer of
my clothes for his, without a considerable gratuity. It was not a time
to argue or deliberate; I therefore paid his demand, and soon found
myself in rags, and with something less than three guineas. I, however,
travelled in safety, though reduced to some distress from the lowness of
my purse, and at last reached the spot, where the benevolence of my
friend Frederick relieved me from apprehended danger.

"I was beginning to recover my tranquillity, when the appearance of Mr.
Talton drove me from your protection:--of my subsequent rencounter with
the smugglers, I have already informed you. After my escape from them, I
worked my passage to Cardigan; where, anxious to see my aunt and Eliza,
I proceeded immediately for the Parsonage, secure, as I thought, in my
sailor's habit. The appearance of Mallet drove me to the cottage of
Owen, who informed me of the report circulated of my death, and that
you, Mr. Talton, had previously to your going to Holland, in my mother's
name, demanded of Mrs. Blond, the back rents of the lands, my father
had attached to the Parsonage, and which my mother had already torn from
her possession."

"'I now,' said Mr. Talton, 'take shame to myself for the action, to
which I was instigated by Lady Corbet, who informed me, Mrs. Blond had
in her house a woman the late Sir Henry had kept previously to his
marriage, and on whom he had since lavished immense sums; that, to
reward Blond for affording her his countenance, he had allowed him the
free rent of the lands; likewise, that she suspected Mrs. Blond was
endeavouring to inveigle you, Sir Henry, into a marriage with her
daughter. I cannot say this account agreed with the characters I ever
received of Mr. and Mrs. Blond; but such was my affection for your
mother, that I still retained the opinion she had impressed me with. She
did not, she said, want the money; but being certain they were the
instigators of your elopement, she wished to have them removed to a
greater distance, but knew no other means to effect it, without exposing
the conduct of the late Sir Henry, which she would willingly avoid. On
going to the parsonage, I was introduced to a lady I had never before
seen: the beauty of her face and figure, added to the extreme shyness
and embarrassment with which she received me, induced me to think she
was the mistress your mother had mentioned; and I am sorry to say, I
behaved to her with a harshness and severity, I am now convinced she
did not deserve; but I should sooner have discredited the evidence of my
senses, than the word of your mother; and scarcely, indeed, can I
believe them, in the discovery this day has afforded! But, I beg pardon,
Sir Henry; pray proceed.'"

"Alarmed at the intelligence I received," continued Sir Henry, "I
hastened to the Parsonage, and found it deserted by all but Mary, who
confirmed the truth of old Owen's report: and that, on the news arriving
of my death, they had been obliged to fly, as Mallet had threatened to
send them to gaol. Mary wept as she gave me the relation of their
distress, and at last said--'Ah! Sir Henry, would to Heaven you had
never left the Hall; for I heard old Thomas tell my Lady, if you had
staid, and thought of the pannel, all had been well; they should not now
have had to regret your death, or been unjustly driven on a merciless
world, to seek their maintenance.'

"Mary knew not the meaning of what she uttered, but, quick as lightning,
it brought to my recollection a pannel which concealed a small cavity in
a closet adjoining the library. There, I doubted not the will was
placed! The woman my father loved, my aunt, her Edward, and her on whose
happiness I then found mine depended, were wandering without support:
and the idea determined me, regardless of the consequence which must
ensue, should I be discovered, to venture beneath the roof I so lately
fled from!

"Favoured by the night, I entered by the servants offices, and got,
unperceived, through the library to the closet. Mary had provided me
with a small dark lanthorn, and, with some difficulty I opened the
cavity; but again was doomed to disappointment; it was vacant! With an
aching heart I closed the pannel, and was going to leave the closet,
when my mother and Mallet entered the library. They discoursed on the
improvement of an estate he had purchased for my mother a few weeks
before; till Mr. Talton's name was casually mentioned, when he asked if
she really designed to marry him? and, on her answering in the
affirmative, he endeavoured to dissuade her from it, and to prevail on
her to bestow her hand on himself.

"'I love you, Charles,' she answered, 'and believe your sentiments are
reciprocal; but will never put it in your power to controul me. I am now
mistress of a noble fortune; and you are welcome to partake of it, even
if increased by that of Talton. Cease then to repeat the only request I
wish to refuse you; and rest satisfied with the title of my lover.'

"He still urged his suit, still she peremptorily forbade the subject,
and reverted to the newly-purchased estate; he soon after retired to his
office, and my mother entered the closet where I was, for the purpose of
writing. Never was surprise and horror greater than that expressed on
her countenance at beholding me: scarcely could her trembling hand
retain the light which exposed the features of a son to her view.--'It
is the phantom of the drowned Corbet!' she at length faintly screamed.
'Approach me not! Help--help!'

"'No, Madam,' I exclaimed, 'your son still lives! and you may now glory
in having reduced him to the state, in which your lover deserted
Louise.'

"I rushed by her, hearing the servants approaching; escaped into the
garden, and, scaling the wall, retraced my steps to Cardigan; every hope
lost of discovering the will, or ever being restored to my rights.
Cooler reflection, however, offered a different interpretation to the
words of Mary, to what I had at first imagined they implied; and I
thought it not impossible, but even probable, that Thomas had discovered
the will (as he actually had), and conveyed it to my aunt and Mrs.
Blond. But where to trace them--I knew not. I was moneyless, and
certainly in danger of being discovered by my mother; and the same
precaution they must use to elude the knowledge of Mr. Talton; would, I
feared, as effectually conceal them from me. For some days, however, I
endeavoured to gain intelligence of them, but in vain; and the powerful
demands of hunger, at last, compelled me to engage as a common sailor in
a merchantman trading to Havre-de-Grace; where, disgusted with the
Captain, I left the vessel, and, having an ardent desire to know if my
deserted sister was in existence, I travelled on foot to Rennes. My
adventures there--my rescue of Louise, I have already related; till the
period when Providence directed my steps to L'Orient, where, impelled
again by necessity, I engaged to serve in a vessel destined with others
to Pondicherry. The day after we reached St. Helena, you, Captain
Howard, also arrived there, and fortune, there wearied of persecuting
me, not only restored me to your friendship, but discovered to me a
sister, endeared to my heart by her misfortunes, before a personal
knowledge made me love her for her virtues; yet the recollection of past
events, forced continually to mind by her striking resemblance to my
mother, preyed on my heart. I again sunk under it; and, but for the
attentions of you, my friends, should most probably, ere this period,
have left my mother the lawful possessor of the fortune she now
illegally holds."

"Thank Heaven, my prayers were heard for the preservation of your
existence:" said Louise: "though, had you, my brother, entrusted me with
the secrets you have this day disclosed, Louise would have been your
comforter, and, by sharing your griefs, have lightened the sorrow which
oppressed you."

"Say, rather, have added to it, my dear girl;" said Sir Henry, "from
the consciousness of having rendered you as unhappy as myself: and but
for the discovery of last night, this of to-day would never have taken
place. For the friends we here found, I wished the recovery of my
fortune; as indeed with them the means rested: and, had not Providence
conducted us to them, should never on my own account oppose her, who,
whatever are her failings,--is still my mother!"

The company here unanimously joined in thanking Sir Henry for the
elucidation of the mysteries which had perplexed them.

"Yet has he not related every particular," said Ellenor, smiling. "He
might have added, that since the deaths of his father and Blond, his
hand has not only sustained Ellenor and her son, but the descendants of
Sir James Elvyn.

"On your second emigration, my Henry, your mother, not being able to
discover you, turned the effects of her rage against us, and sent a
peremptory demand, by Mr. Talton, for the back-rents. This message,
which portended our ruin, threw us into the utmost consternation;
though, had I entertained a suspicion the lover of Lady Corbet was the
former friend of my Howard, I should not have hesitated a moment in
discovering myself to him, and appealing to the rectitude of his own
principles against the injustice and inhumanity of the claim. Your
mother, however, at that time, went to London, and Mr. Talton
accompanying her, in some degree freed us from our fears of immediate
distress; but the following morning, Mallet, attended by an officer,
entered the room whilst we were at breakfast, and arrested Mrs. Blond
for three and twenty hundred pounds, the amount of the rent for
seventeen years.--Nor was my unhappy friend treated with either respect
or mercy, but, on declaring her inability to discharge the debt,
instantly hurried away to confinement.

"To sue for lenity, I was certain would be in vain, I therefore
(trusting to Sir Henry's friendship, to redress the injury,) paid the
money; consisting of my father's legacy to Blond, which had hitherto
been preserved for Eliza, and the money Sir Henry had supplied me with,
for my Edward's maintenance at the University.

"Lady Corbet, however, was determined on forcing us from Caermarthen;
for, a few weeks after, we were privately informed by a servant from the
Hall, that he had overheard Mallet threatening to arrest both me and
Mrs. Blond, as joint tenants, for the rent of the parsonage since the
death of Blond, and from Mr. Talton's name being likewise mentioned, he
was induced, he said, to think that gentleman concerned in the
business.--This relation, added to the late occurrence, considerably
affected the health of Hannah; and she earnestly entreated her sister to
leave the Parsonage, and seek a surer asylum at the house of Lieutenant
Booyers, at least till we should hear from Sir Henry. Mrs. Blond readily
acceded to the proposal, and, writing for my Edward to return, we
prepared for our departure.

"At that time Thomas returned from Cornwall, where he had been sent some
time before Sir Henry's elopement; and on being informed of that
circumstance, and our sentiments respecting Lady Corbet, he declared he
had supported my brother, when he took his will from the private room,
and placed it in the recess of his closet; but ever supposed it had been
the same which was produced after his decease. He undertook to procure
it; but could not accomplish his design, till the day previous to Lady
Corbet's return; the library being shut up, and Mallet in possession of
the keys: an opportunity then presented itself, of entering unperceived,
and he found the will, indeed, where my brother had placed it. He
immediately brought it to me; when every ardent hope, the discovery had
raised, was destroyed, by the report of Sir Henry's death. Thomas's
dislike to Lady Corbet being greatly increased by the knowledge of this
action, he determined to follow my fortunes, and attach himself to my
son as his future master. We accordingly proceeded to Lieutenant
Booyers, where the amiable Hannah--her gentle spirit broken by repeated
afflictions--sunk beneath this last misfortune, and, a few weeks after,
found a refuge from her sorrows in the grave.

"We were yet mourning her loss, when we were alarmed by Susan informing
us, she had seen you, Mr. Talton, alight at the inn.--Not doubting but
that you were in pursuit of us, we ordered a carriage from the adjoining
village, and prepared again for flight. On Booyers' return with Ellen,
being made acquainted with the emergency of our situation, he consented
to accompany us, and we thus set out--Providence our guide--to seek a
future habitation. Heaven conducted us to this spot, where happiness has
once more become an inmate of my bosom; and where justice, I hope, by
the hand of my Howard, will re-establish Sir Henry in the possessions of
which he has been defrauded."

"My obligations to Sir Henry, on your account, my Ellenor," said the
Captain, "I can never sufficiently acknowledge; indeed every action or
account but heightens my admiration and regard. Let me then know, my
young friend, how you wish to proceed--and command my fortune and
interest."

"It is now the subject to be considered," said Sir Henry. "Violent
measures we cannot pursue. The will my mother produced is forged: think
then what must be the consequence, if I commence a process of law
against her. No--rather let me rest satisfied with the entailed estates.
I would wish to appoint you my guardian, for the remainder of my
minority: my mother, at her decease, may perhaps be just: if
not--whilst blessed with the friendship of those I so highly esteem, and
as I trust with the hand and affection of Eliza, I shall not only have
sufficient to fulfil my father's request, but to enjoy every comfort of
life: its luxuries I am content to dispense with."

"I cannot agree to this arrangement," said Mr. Talton: "and if you, Sir
Henry, will allow me to be joint guardian with Captain Howard, I may,
perhaps, be able to re-establish you in your rights, without the aid of
the law."

Sir Henry readily consented, on condition that his mother was not
exposed.

"That, Sir Henry," continued Mr. Talton, "I shall carefully avoid. My
affection to your mother, first founded on personal attractions, was
confirmed only by the appearance of every virtue. Think, then, what must
be my sentiments, at the discovery of her real character. I shall
respect your feelings, my amiable young friends, nor forget that she is
your mother: but these proofs of her duplicity, have raised a sentiment
of indignation, perhaps not altogether excusable, against the woman for
whom I so lately avowed an ardent attachment: but sooner will I tear the
dearest hope, the richest prospect of happiness my fancy could pourtray
from my heart, than be an accomplice in wronging her already too much
injured offspring!

"Misled by her insinuations, I regarded the late Sir Henry as a tyrant,
and her son, as a youth of sordid unsocial principles! I am
undeceived--and here avow myself the supporter of his cause. Lady Corbet
shall find, that when led into an error, Talton is neither ashamed to
acknowledge it, nor to make reparation as far as lies in his power! Nor
do I think it will prove an improper punishment to her, to be deprived
of her ill-obtained wealth, by the man she pretended affection to, and
would have accepted, with no other view than to increase it. But whether
I succeed or not in this act of justice, you, Sir Henry, shall ever find
a father in me!"

Sir Henry returned his acknowledgements for the regard Mr. Talton
professed; and began to cherish a hope, that all would yet terminate to
his satisfaction. The re-appearance of Mrs. Blond added to the pleasure
which prevailed: only the bosom of Louise sometimes heaved a sigh, at
the disappointment of the ideas she had cherished, of being restored to
the arms of a mother.

The messenger returning with the licence, arrangements were commenced
for the approaching nuptials. The Captain wished to have secured his
Ellenor an ample competence, independent of himself: but she refused the
jointure, telling him, with a smile, she would not be restricted to a
part of his fortune. They, therefore, agreed to dispense with the
delays of the law, and appointed the following day for their re-union:
after which, they proposed to proceed to Mr. Talton's, and there wait
the return of Lady Corbet.

Enlivened by genuine gaiety, the hours passed imperceptibly; and the
ensuing morning, Ellenor, for the second time, gave her hand to the man
she loved: and the transports of the Captain on the occasion, showed how
highly he prized the gift.




CHAPTER IV.


A few days after the marriage, they bade adieu to the humble roof, which
had so many months afforded them a secure asylum; presenting the stock
on the farm, and the furniture, to the peasant, who, with his wife, had
proved themselves zealous and faithful servants.

By pleasant journeys, Sir Henry and his friends proceeded toward the
seat of Mr. Talton, which, as he had informed the Captain, adjoined to
the Corbet estate.--On approaching the Parsonage, Edward, who was
conversing with his father, checked the pace of his horse, and, pointing
it out to his observation, said,--"I can scarcely, my dear Sir, express
the pleasure I feel in this return to the scenes of my earlier days. How
often have I trodden the spot we are now passing, and plucked the wild
heath from its native soil--gayly carolling as the lark soaring over our
heads, unconscious of evil, and a stranger to sorrow! Here, too, the
worthy Blond, and my generous uncle, would often join Sir Henry and
myself, in our boyish amusements; and whilst we inhaled health from the
mountain breeze, would, from each object and incident, mix instruction
with our pastime. Here, too, I last beheld one of the fairest of
nature's creation----."

"Which circumstance," said the Captain, with a smile, "I believe, my
son, you remember with as much regret as pleasure. I have, Edward, from
the time I first beheld you, imagined your cheerfulness to be forced.
Your mother, too, has observed it; and I have wished for the
opportunity, which now offers, of inquiring the cause? Make me your
confident; nor think, in unbosoming yourself, it is to a rigid censor,
but to a father, whose anxiety for your happiness equals--and perhaps
exceeds your own."

"I doubt not your indulgence, my dear Sir," answered Edward, after a
slight hesitation: "your heart, I am certain, will afford an excuse for
the wanderings of mine. I have, as you justly observed, affected a
gaiety I am far from feeling, or hope ever again to experience."

"Can you despond," said the Captain still smiling, "with such an example
as the loves of your parents before you? But who is the fair-one, who
has thus gained your affections, and at the same time reduced you to
despair?--Is she above your hopes, or in a state of life too far beneath
you?"

"Your questions, my father," answered Edward, "add to my distress: I
know not who she is? Her state in life, if I may judge from her
appearance, is equal--if not superior--to my own."

"And when, Edward," asked the Captain more seriously, "did you first see
this object of your regard? Some acquaintance, I suppose, must have
existed--you could not, I imagine, become enamoured merely from seeing a
fair face?"

"My acquaintance," said Edward, "if it deserve that epithet, with this
truly beloved girl, began nearly three years since. I was returning,
with some of my fellow-collegians, from an evening's excursion, toward
our college; when a horse, on which was a lady, approached with a
rapidity fright only could occasion: the impulse of humanity hurried me
to her assistance: I caught at the rein, at the moment when,
overpowered by terror, she quitted her hold, and fell senseless to the
ground. I failed in my attempt to stop the affrighted animal, who darted
along with the utmost velocity; but fortunately so far broke the fall of
his lovely burthen, that she received no material hurt. I raised her
from the ground, and recollection was returning, when a gentleman,
followed by his servant, rode up to us; but, to my great astonishment,
instead of expressing any concern at the accident, or inquiring if the
lovely object I held in my arms had sustained any injury, he broke into
violent exclamations of rage at her mismanagement of her steed, and
declared she would only have received her due reward, if she had broken
her neck! I could not listen to him with patience, but sharply told
him--I should have supposed he designed her to meet the fate he had
mentioned, by his trusting her on an animal, more fit for the hands of a
horse-breaker than a lady.

"'And who, Sir,' he vociferated, 'asked your opinion of the matter?
Cease your impertinence, or talk to your fellows! For you, Madam, you
shall ride this horse for six months to come: and, if you dare, repeat
this day's behaviour!'

"He then commanded the servant to ride after the horse; in the mean time
I endeavoured to encourage the weeping girl, who, however, was too much
terrified by the menaces of her father, for such he was, to pay much
attention to me.

"The horse had been stopped by some farmers; and, on the servant's
returning with it, her father peremptorily commanded her to
re-mount.--'Dear--dear father,' she cried, wringing her hands, 'do not
insist on it;--pray let me walk.'

"'Get up this instant,' he replied, 'and do not irritate me, or my whip
shall enforce your obedience!'--He was going to execute his threat, when
I lifted his trembling daughter on the saddle, and, taking hold of the
bridle, told my companions I would soon rejoin them, then, begging her
to dispel her apprehensions, for I would guide her horse, led it by the
side of her father's.

"She looked her thanks for my care, whilst a faint smile played through
her tears; nor was my precaution useless, as the frequent starts of the
frightened animal plainly showed he would again have hurried his lovely
mistress into danger, if he had not been restrained by a more powerful
hand.

"Her father, as his passion subsided, I believe, became more conscious
of her danger; for when we had proceeded nearly a mile, he stopped, and,
alighting, commanded the servant to change the saddles; the man obeyed
with alacrity, and in a few minutes had the satisfaction of seeing her
on her father's horse; that gentleman mounting the runaway steed; then,
with more politeness than I expected from his preceding behaviour, he
thanked me for the attention I had shown his daughter: and wishing me
good evening, bowed and proceeded on his way. I remained on the spot, my
eyes directed after them, till they quitted the road, when I slowly
retraced my way to the college.

"This incident remained, with the image of the lovely girl, impressed
for some time on my mind; but in vain I visited every place of public
amusement, or inquired amongst my acquaintance, no one knew the person I
described.

"Time had nearly effaced the circumstance from my mind, when I received
my mother's letter, enjoining me to return to the Parsonage. I obeyed,
and, the day after my arrival, was going to the cottage of Owen, for the
purpose of meeting Thomas, when, on approaching the spot we have now
passed, I beheld three females, and as many children; one, who appeared
by her dress to be superior to the others, was seated on a ridge of
rock, caressing the infants; one appeared a servant, and the other, by
the loudness of her exclamations and thanks, I discovered to be an
object of charity, whom the beneficence of the first had relieved. I
approached, and with surprise beheld the features of her I had formerly
assisted; but, gracious Heaven, how was every charm improved! She as
instantly recalled me to remembrance, and, with a blush which heightened
every beauty, rose to return my salutation. At that moment I forgot the
purport of my walk--my mother--all but the lovely object before me. In
answer to my expressions of surprise, at meeting her in such an
unfrequented place, she informed me, she was on a visit to a relation of
her mother, who resided not more than two miles off; then, in terms as
elegant as language could express, or gratitude inspire, she thanked me
for the assistance I had formerly afforded her; enumerated each little
circumstance of the adventure, and again repeated her thanks. They led
to other subjects: the woman and her children retired toward the
village, and the time passed imperceptibly, till her maid warned her it
was time to return to the house of her friend. I would have escorted
her; but she declined my offer, adding--'As I informed you, I am under
the care of a relation, whose ideas of propriety are too rigidly severe,
to let her pardon such a liberty, should I grant it: and I think you,
who so humanely saved my life, would not wish, even for a moment, to
render that life unpleasant or unhappy.'

"I could urge no farther, and with a smile which nearly compensated for
her refusal, she presented her hand as she bade me farewell.--My peace
fled with her! Each look, each word, her vivacity, the animation which
sparkled in her eyes, were all impressed on my heart--and too deeply to
be ever effaced!

"The moment she disappeared from my sight, I regretted that I had not
asked her name; hope, however, whispered I might soon again behold her,
and, after vainly endeavouring to catch a glimpse of her between the
distant trees, I recalled to mind the cottage of Owen, to which I then
directed my steps. Thomas soon joined me, and with the highest
exultation of joy, informed me he had obtained the will of my deceased
uncle! I hugged the worthy old man in my arms, and with quicker steps
than I went, returned with him to the Parsonage.

"The transports of my mother and Mrs. Blond nearly equalled those of
Thomas, and joyfully did we anticipate the return of Sir Henry, and his
restoration to the honours of his house: but short-lived was our
promised happiness! The next morning Thomas returned, and with the
bitterest exclamations of sorrow, delivered the account of his death.

"Wretched indeed were the moments which succeeded this intelligence;
for, in him, we had lost our only protector against the wiles of Lady
Corbet: the return of Mr. Talton added to our apprehensions, and the
next morning we privately quitted the Parsonage. My expectation and hope
of again beholding this enchanting girl, were thus destroyed: in my mind
she is ever present; but, from that period I have never beheld her."

"Your heart, Edward," said the Captain after a pause, "I am afraid, has
been too susceptible: yet my love for your mother was as sudden, and
equalled that of yours for this fair Unknown. You are, however, returned
to the most probable place to gain intelligence of her; if, as she said,
she have relations residing so near Mr. Talton. Seek and inquire after
her; and if you find--and she prove worthy of you, neither fortune, nor
your father's consent, shall be wanted to ensure your happiness."

Edward thanked his father with a vivacity he had rarely before shown;
adding--"Often have I wished to acquaint my mother with my predilection
for this Unknown, and intreat her permission to seek her; but, the
difficulties we have been involved in, her fear of being discovered,
and her superior fear that I should quit her maternal arms to seek a
father (whom I knew not, till the report of Sir Henry's death, to be in
existence), has repeatedly checked the confidence I ever designed to
place in her."

They continued conversing, till Mr. Talton inquired the cause of their
desertion; when they hastened to rejoin him, and soon after arrived at
the seat of that gentleman; where they received intelligence that Lady
Corbet had returned to the Hall the preceding day.

She had, indeed, been informed, when near London, by a gentleman, whom
she accidentally met, and who was personally acquainted with Sir Henry,
of his seeing him at Bristol with Captain Howard; she, therefore, gave
up the idea of going to London, and immediately proceeded to Bristol,
where she learned, the Captain had some time since gone on an excursion
into the country; but to what part no one could inform her. Perplexed at
this account, and fatigued with her journey, she resigned her first
intention of pursuing Sir Henry, and resolved to return to the Hall; as
the vigilance of Mr. Talton, she doubted not, would soon recover her
son, without her immediate assistance in the search. To her great
astonishment, a few days after, she was informed Sir Henry was a
visitant at Mr. Talton's; and, unable to reconcile the circumstance with
that gentleman's professions of attachment to herself, wrote to him, to
request the favour of an interview.

"I shall certainly comply with her Ladyship's desire," said Mr. Talton,
on perusing her note; "as I hope, by alarming her with a pretended
recourse to justice, I shall induce her to resign the estates of Sir
Henry; and, as witnesses may be proper, shall beg the attendance of you,
Howard, and Lieutenant Booyers."

These gentlemen readily assented; but before they were prepared for
their departure, perceived her Ladyship's equipage advancing up the
avenue. Sir Henry started on beholding it.

"Would to Heaven," he cried, "this interview were over! I think, Mr.
Talton, I had better retire."

"Louise, my love," said Harland, "let me conduct you to your apartment.
Your pallid looks convince me, an interview with your mother ought not
now to take place."

"No, Harland," answered Louise, "let me stay. Long have I ardently
wished to be blessed with the sight of her who gave me being; to hear
the voice of a parent, though circumstances forbid my hoping to receive
a blessing: then, I entreat you, let me stay. Believe me, if I tremble,
it is for her; unprepared to answer so serious an accusation; to meet
those she has so greatly injured!"

Harland reluctantly consented.

"You can stay, my dear girl," said Mrs. Blond; "but, as my presence is
not necessary, I shall beg leave to accompany Sir Henry:" and a servant
then announcing the arrival of their visitant, she took Sir Henry by the
arm, and hastily quitted the room.

With that innate elegance which marked her demeanour, Lady Corbet
entered the drawing-room: the appearance of such an unexpected party,
for a moment checked the smile which played on her lips; but, quickly
recovering herself, she informed Mr. Talton of the report which had
reached her, and begged to know if Sir Henry were actually under his
roof, or if it were the appearance of the youth she beheld, which gave
rise to the rumour?

"I do not wonder at your Ladyship's perceiving the resemblance of
Captain Howard's son to Sir Henry," said Mr. Talton; "it is indeed an
uncommon one. But this young gentleman is too well known in these parts,
although you, Madam, never before beheld him, to be mistaken for Sir
Henry, who, as you have been informed, is certainly in my house. It was
my intention to have waited on your Ladyship, as I have a circumstance
of some importance to unfold: the present period, however, may answer as
well; and, as Sir Henry has chosen me his joint-guardian with Captain
Howard, we will, if you please, come to the point at once."

Lady Corbet bowed, and Mr. Talton continued--"Disagreeable is the task I
have imposed on myself: but, as I think it my duty to make reparation,
as far as lies in my power, for the injuries I have, however
unintentionally, committed; your Ladyship must pardon me for espousing a
cause, which will prove so detrimental to yourself."

"I cannot comprehend, Mr. Talton," interrupted Lady Corbet, "to what you
allude; and will thank you to come, as you said, to the point at once.
My son, you inform me, has chosen you his guardian: I would wish to know
from what motive; or what induced you to accept the trust?"

"To reinstate him in his rights, Lady Corbet," answered Mr. Talton; "of
which, I am sorry to say, you have deprived him."

"This is an accusation, Sir," said Lady Corbet, haughtily rising, "you
have no right to make; and an insult I did not expect from you."

"I do not wish to discompose you, Madam," said Mr. Talton, coolly; "pray
be seated. This accusation, though of a most serious nature, is not the
only one I have to offer. Injuries designed against myself I can pardon;
but, not those you wished to make me the instrument of committing toward
others. But this is deviating from the principal charge--your Ladyship,
I presume, is conscious the will produced, and by which you hold the
possessions of the late Sir Henry, is a false one?"

"I can now pardon the treatment I have received," answered Lady Corbet,
recovering her composure. "My unhappy son, I perceive, has been relating
a tale, originating in his own distempered imagination: yet, surely, you
might have acted with greater delicacy, than to accuse me thus in
company, even had you, my friend, supposed the improbable account to be
true."

"It is past supposition, Lady Corbet," said Mr. Talton: "proofs have
confirmed its truth. As for Sir Henry being insane, the idea is absurd:
although, I acknowledge, the treatment he received at your hands, was
more than sufficient to have deprived an indifferent person of their
senses, much less a son, who ought to have expected a different conduct
in his mother!"

"Conduct!" repeated Lady Corbet. "I know not, Sir, what you would
insinuate: but my conduct as a mother, and in every respect, will bear
any scrutiny you can make!"

"It must soon be brought to the proof," said Mr. Talton; "though I
greatly fear it will not stand the test!"

"What mean you, Sir!" exclaimed Lady Corbet, exalting her voice. "I
would not have you imagine, because I have demeaned myself, by
permitting an intimacy, that you are authorised to treat me with this
freedom! Lady Corbet, Sir, believe me, will not be insulted with
impunity!"

"Have you not deserved this treatment, Lady Corbet?" asked Mr. Talton
solemnly. "Nay more!--Look round this circle--here are more than one to
prove the injustice of your conduct. This Lady, you falsely informed me,
your husband kept previously to his marriage--an abandoned mistress:
and, as such, did you not drive his sister destitute on the
world?--Demeaned by my acquaintance!--There sits a living proof of that
existing between yourself and the Steward of your father. This young
lady was left an infant at Rennes, nearly twenty years since, by
Mallet; and is, as I have been informed, the daughter of her whom I am
now addressing, and entitled to the sum of thirty thousand pounds,
bequeathed in trust to you, by the late Miss Louisa Holly! I mention
these circumstances, Madam, just to convince you--"

"Spare--spare my mother!" shrieked Louise, wringing her hands, "I want
no fortune! Force not a parent's curses on my head!"

"Compose yourself, my Louise," said the alarmed Harland; "and let
consideration for your husband calm these transports!"--But, breaking
from his arms, she threw herself at the feet of the apparently
horror-stricken Lady Corbet; clasped her hand to her bosom, and, faintly
murmuring--"Oh my mother!" sunk insensible on the floor.

She was immediately conveyed from the room by her husband, followed by
Mrs. Howard, Ellen, and Eliza. Mr. Talton's agitation, which he in vain
strove to conquer, prevented his immediately proceeding; but, the
Captain perceiving Lady Corbet recovering from her surprise, said,

"I believe, Madam, you will no longer wonder at Mr. Talton's becoming,
with me, the guardian of your son; who, at length, has consented to
commit his cause to the decision of justice: and, the ensuing term, will
commence a suit, which, I am afraid, will render you an object of
abhorrence in every worthy heart."

"And who art thou?" asked Lady Corbet, scornfully, "or by what right
dare you impute these crimes to me--or threaten me with an appeal to
justice? The estates--the property I hold--are mine; nor can you deprive
me of them. By the will of my husband I hold them; and, protected by the
law, I will enjoy them!"

"The will you hold them by, Madam," repeated Mr. Talton, "is a false
one! and so it shall be proved, to your utter confusion!"

"Assuredly," cried Lady Corbet, "I ought to discredit my senses, which
tell me it is Talton who addresses me; or, you, perhaps, my good friend,
are affected by the phantasms of your new ward! I can prove him insane
from the evidence of my servants; think then, what weight his accusation
will have in a court of judicature!--But, if the will, which awarded
this property to me, be false--where, Sir, is the real one?--Produce
it!--and by that, if you can, prove the illegality of my tenure!"

"As I told you, Madam," said Talton, "neither proofs--nor witnesses,
substantial ones too, are wanting. To oblige Sir Henry, who does not
forget you are his mother, though you have proved unmindful of that tie,
I should have waited on you, that you might not be unprepared for the
charge: for there are many circumstances, too tedious to be now
discussed, which must be explained in a court of justice! The real will
of the late Sir Henry is found, and now in my possession: from whence it
will pass to that of the Lord Chancellor; together with a packet,
likewise of your husband's writing, containing an account of your
proceedings and conversations with your favourite, Mallet; which he
overheard, by means of a closet in the private room adjoining your
apartment; and by which means, the present Sir Henry is likewise well
informed of every artifice you have used to make him appear insane, and
your intentions to have destroyed the will, could you have discovered
it!"

He was prevented from proceeding, by the horror which appeared in the
countenance of Lady Corbet. An universal trembling seized her frame,
and, had not the Captain supported her, she would have sunk on the
floor: he replaced her on the settee, and when she had in some degree
recovered from this agitation of guilt and fear, he said:--"A candid
confession on your part, Lady Corbet, with the restoration of the
property bequeathed Sir Henry, by his father, are the only means to
avoid the ruin which threatens you. It is not my wish, nor Mr. Talton's,
far less Sir Henry's, to bring his mother to a public trial; but
justice, either by your hand or ours, shall be rendered him! If you
refuse to afford it him--all shall be discovered!"

"All is discovered!" cried Lady Corbet, distractedly. "But never shall
Henry triumph over me, in a court of justice! No--sooner shall my own
hand plunge me into eternity!"

"Little are you prepared for so serious a change," said Talton. "You may
fly from the accusations of a son, but would meet those of a husband,
injured in every respect, before a Being from whom there is no escape:
and whose justice, though blended with mercy, is equal to his power!
Rather, Lady Corbet, endeavour to atone for your past actions, and by a
life of repentance, seek that mercy, you at present so little deserve!"

This address, delivered in a manner, equally solemn and affecting,
appeared to increase the horror of Lady Corbet.

"Louise, too;" she faintly articulated;--"would I had not seen her! But
no matter, there is still a resource!"--She burst into tears; then,
after a moment's pause, hastily continued--"I presume, Sir, you have
nothing farther to communicate, and I am now at liberty to depart?"

Mr. Talton bowed, and ringing the bell, Lady Corbet, in a state
approaching nearly to derangement, followed the servant to her carriage,
and returned to the Hall.




CHAPTER V.


Mr. Talton silently paced the room, some minutes after her departure; he
had gained the triumph over his feelings in this interview, but, he
felt, too dearly, and would cheerfully have resigned half of his
fortune, had Lady Corbet proved herself as amiable as he formerly
thought her. He was soon joined by all the party, except Louise, who was
too ill to leave her apartment; and Sir Henry being anxious to know the
particulars of the interview, requested him to recount what had passed.
Mr. Talton instantly complied.

"Forbid it, Heaven," Sir Henry ejaculated, as he concluded, "that she
should meditate suicide! Never more should I experience a moment's
happiness! Sooner would I embrace the most abject poverty, than enjoy a
state of affluence by driving a mother to self-destruction!"

"I do not apprehend her Ladyship will commit any act of desperation on
herself," said Mr. Talton: "but rather, as I intended by alarming her,
endeavour to escape from justice, by resigning your possessions."

He was right in his conjecture: Lady Corbet, justly alarmed at the
discovery of her guilt, and dreading the power of that justice she
pretended to despise, immediately on her return to the Hall, summoned
Mallet, and, informing him of what had happened, ordered him to repair
to London, and withdraw her property, amounting to nearly fourscore
thousand pounds, exclusive of Louise's fortune, from the funds, and
follow her to France.

Mallet by no means approved of her precipitation:--"I wish your safety,
Lady Corbet," he answered, after a pause; "yet reflect before you
determine on flight. Did Talton produce the will?--No! Then may not this
accusation be a plan to entice you to confess what, I grant, they may
suspect, but cannot prove! Where--or how should Talton have obtained
the will? Sir Henry possessed it not when he quitted the Hall, or this
claim would have been made sooner. But even supposing this account of
their having it to be true, (which I can scarcely credit), may there not
be means to get it from their possession?--Reflect a little, Caroline,
and if you can keep--there is no occasion to throw away so much
property."

Lady Corbet hesitated--"If I can keep--Charles: but impossible! Talton
too surely has the will: he is not a man either to trifle or be trifled
with. Yet how--where--or when he could obtain it--"

"Is at present," interrupted Mallet, "of very little consequence. Had
the measures I advised been pursued, this would never have occurred:
but as it is--all I can say is, if he really have it, means must be
found to get it from him."

"Impossible--impossible, Charles!"

"Why so, Lady Corbet? Consent to give me your hand if I succeed, and
trust to my management for the obtaining of it--if in his possession."

"I do consent!--I will consent to any thing," answered the agitated Lady
Corbet, "on the condition you have named!"

"But one question, then," said her crafty lover: "Where does Talton keep
his papers of consequence?"

"In a cabinet, which stands in his chamber. But wherefore do you
ask?--What means do you propose to pursue?"

"Forcible ones," replied Mallet, "if I find them requisite."

"Let them be prudent, cautious, and expeditious," said Lady Corbet,
emphatically: "and if danger await me, be quick as fear itself to give
me intelligence!"

They separated; and Mallet, his head teeming with various projects,
proceeded toward Mr. Talton's. On approaching the house, he perceived
the servants were assembled in their own apartment; he, therefore,
confidently entered by one of the lower windows, and, being well
acquainted with every room, hastened to that Lady Corbet had mentioned.
His heart beat with malicious pleasure on beholding the cabinet; and,
securing the door, to prevent discovery, he lightly advanced, and with
trembling impatience attempted to open the drawers. All, however, were
secured; he then tried various keys, but without effect; and being
certain no time was to be lost, resolutely applied a chissel he had
brought, and forced the lock of the principal drawer. He looked not far
for the will; the hand-writing of the deceased Sir Henry soon met his
view, and, hastily securing his prize, he, with an exulting heart, was
retreating from the chamber, when Sir Henry, who with Harland, had left
the drawing-room to visit Louise, returned from her apartment. The
figure of Mallet caught his eye, and the appearance of the cabinet
forced open as instantly disclosed the reason of his being there. Sir
Henry sprung to oppose his escape, and seizing him by the collar,
demanded the restitution of the writings he had so feloniously obtained.
Rendered desperate by this unexpected discovery, Mallet, after vainly
struggling for liberation, drew the chissel from his pocket, and aimed a
stroke at the bosom of Sir Henry.

It was too well directed to have failed in its effect, and Sir Henry
must inevitably have fallen a victim, had not Harland, surprised by his
exclamation, hastened from his wife's apartment, and, perceiving his
danger, torn the destructive weapon from the hand of the assassin!

Mallet was still endeavouring to force his way from Sir Henry, when Mr.
Talton and the Captain, surprised at the scuffle, hastened to the spot,
followed by Frederick, Edward, and several of the servants, who had
likewise been alarmed. The cause was soon explained, and Mallet
effectually secured; he was then searched, and the will, with the packet
written by the deceased Sir Henry, produced.

"Lady Corbet, I find," said Mr. Talton, "is resolved to tear her image
from my heart! By heavens! this last action exceeds all I could ever
have supposed a woman, and a mother, could have been guilty of!--For
you, Mallet, your life shall answer for this outrage!"

This last sentence, pronounced with uncommon energy, reached the ear of
Louise, who rushed into the passage.--"He is--he is my father," she
cried in a voice of anguish. "Oh, for my sake, have mercy!" She threw
herself at the feet of Mr. Talton, who, with Sir Henry and Harland,
endeavoured to raise her from the floor, as the former said--"He has
attempted the life of your brother, Mrs. Harland. But retire to your
chamber, this scene is not fit for you."

Harland would have borne her away; but, with the wildest screams, she
broke from him, and threw her arms round the neck of Mallet, who
appeared as much confounded at her claim, as at the discovery of his
preceding action.

"I am your Louise," sobbed his agitated daughter; "her whom you left at
the gates of St. Ursule.--Will you not speak to me, and say you are my
father?"

"The name of father," answered Mallet sullenly, "affords no pleasure to
me, but has given a stab to my heart, I never thought to have
experienced. Neither, I think, can it be gratifying to your ears, if you
recollect the treatment you have received at my hands. If you wish,
however, to show yourself my daughter, remind Sir Henry it is not in my
power or your mother's now to injure him. I am at his mercy; but I do
not expect to find it."

Louise turned a tearful eye to Sir Henry.--"My brother!" plaintively
escaped her lips, and falling on his bosom, she wept in silence.

"Compose yourself, my dear girl:" said Sir Henry: "the tears of Louise
can never plead in vain!--Go, Sir," he continued, addressing Mallet, as
he unfastened the cord which confined him.--"For Louise's sake, you are
free: and that this evening's transactions may teach you a useful
lesson, take with you the forgiveness of the man you would have
deprived--even of life!"

"I will not oppose your generous sentence, Sir Henry," said Mr. Talton;
"but if you, Mallet, be found in this part of the country to-morrow--the
next morning, notwithstanding Sir Henry's clemency, you shall certainly
be the inmate of a prison."

Louise wrung her hands, and again burst into tears; whilst Mallet's brow
assumed a deeper gloom: but, as he passed her, he said--"This is, most
probably, then, Louise, our last interview. As the merit of my release
rests with you, may a better blessing than mine be your reward!" He
descended the stairs, followed by Mr. Talton and the servants; whilst
Louise, satisfied by his liberation and benediction, yielded to
Harland's entreaties, that she would retire to her own apartment.

In the mean time, Mallet retraced his steps to Corbet Hall; one moment
furious from the loss of the prize he had obtained; the next,
overwhelmed with shame at his detection. Unwillingly he approached Lady
Corbet, who awaited his return with the utmost anxiety and impatience;
eagerly her eyes glanced to catch intelligence from his; they sparkled
not with exultation--"What hopes--what success--what fortune--await me?"
she hastily interrogated. "Your only hopes--are in flight!" answered
Mallet, churlishly. "Sir Henry has, indeed, the will to produce, with
the packet Talton mentioned." He then recounted what had passed: but,
when Lady Corbet learned, the will had actually been in his possession,
and that he had neglected to destroy, the moment he obtained it, her
rage exceeded the power of restraint.

Mallet listened impatiently to her reproaches; and at last said--"The
best concerted schemes, Caroline, may sometimes be rendered abortive;
nor can I in the least reproach myself for the failure of this. But, it
is useless wasting time in words, which ought to be employed in making
preparations for a safe retreat; and, as our affairs are situated, the
sooner we depart the better."

"But for your foolish prevention, Sir," said Lady Corbet, "I should, ere
this time, have been beyond the reach of Talton: but you, forsooth,
must raise hopes--only, by a futile project, to dash them more forcibly
to the ground, and make me more sensibly feel the loss of wealth and
honour, by reflecting, you had it in your power--but neglected--to
secure them to me!"

She left him with increasing anger, yet with every fear awake to
apprehended danger. She, therefore, packed up jewels and money to a
considerable amount; and, a little after midnight, set out for Pembroke;
leaving Sir Henry to establish his rights as he thought proper.

In the mean time, Sir Henry experienced a state of anxiety and
wretchedness, little inferior to Lady Corbet's. He had given the power
of acting as they wished, into the hands of Mr. Talton and the Captain:
his mother, they had promised, should not be exposed: but, he feared,
this last disappointment of her plans, and discovery of her principles,
might, indeed, instigate her to some act of desperation.

His apprehensions were relieved the next morning, when the following
laconic letter was delivered to Mr. Talton:--

     "Tell my unnatural son, he never shall triumph over the fall of his
     mother!--By the time this reaches your hands, I shall have bidden
     an eternal adieu to England; to seek a retreat where I may
     securely laugh at, and despise both him and the power of justice.

     "As Louise's offence of appearing in my presence, I believe, was
     unintentional, tell her, I forgive her--and, some years hence, may,
     perhaps, be induced to remember I am her mother.

               "CAROLINE CORBET."

The satisfaction of Sir Henry's friends at this event, so much more
favourable than they had expected, could be equalled only by his own, at
the disappointment of his fears, respecting his mother. Cheerfully he
returned their gratulations; till Mr. Talton reminded him, it was
requisite he should go to the Hall, and examine into the state of his
affairs. A carriage was accordingly ordered, and Sir Henry, accompanied
by Mr. Talton and the Captain, took possession of his paternal
habitation. On inquiring after the retreat of Lady Corbet, the
housekeeper informed them, she had left the Hall, unattended, and in a
hired carriage; and that Mallet was likewise gone--they knew not
whither.

The tenantry were then assembled; who with satisfaction admitted the
justice of his claim, and openly rejoiced at their young landlord's
succession to the fortunes of his father. On examining the accounts of
Mallet, Sir Henry was induced to coincide with Mr. Talton's opinion,
that his mother had not left England unprovided for; and knowing that
his father, at his decease, had money to a considerable amount, in the
Caermarthen and Pembroke banks, immediately agreed to his guardians
proposal, of going to those places, that he might be certified what
property he had still remaining. Accordingly, writing to his friends at
Mr. Talton's, to acquaint them with their proceedings, they set out for
Pembroke.

Whilst Sir Henry and his guardians were thus employed, Edward,
authorised by the previous approbation of his father, commenced his
inquiry after the fair Unknown. Nor was the heart of Frederick more at
ease than Edward's: from the time he beheld Ellen at the grave of her
aunt, he had cherished a secret attachment. Restrained, however, by the
consideration of his dependent state, he would have refrained from an
avowal of his love; but, unused to disguise, the secret of his heart
escaped him: nor could the artless Ellen conceal the delight which
sparkled in her intelligent eyes at the declaration; yet a moment after
saw them suffused in tears.

"Prudence, Frederick," she timidly answered, "must forbid your
encouraging any sentiments of regard for me. I am an orphan, and, though
not friendless, poor in the extreme!"

"I am equally poor, Ellen," said Frederick; "for I have no certainty but
my commission, and might term myself an orphan, like you, for any
consideration I expect from my parents. Yet, in a few years, promotion
may place me in independence. I have a real and generous friend in my
uncle, though I have no right to expect--nor do I--that he should
deprive Edward of any part of his property on my account. I am a sailor,
and must fight for fortune; and cheerfully could I face every danger my
profession exposes me to, if assured the hand of Ellen would at last be
my reward."

"My uncle, Frederick," she replied, "must here direct my conduct,--if he
approve, Ellen will not oppose your wishes. I want not grandeur in my
establishment for life; but will never marry, to involve the man I
esteem in difficulties, which may destroy--instead of securing--his
happiness."

"Such were my hopes, and such the answer of my Hannah!" said Lieutenant
Booyers, entering from an inner apartment, "May your fate, my children,
prove more fortunate than hers and mine! Frederick, I esteem and respect
you; nor know I the man, on whom I would sooner bestow my Ellen--the
only treasure I now can boast. You certainly are entitled to a provision
from your father, equally with his other children: if he will settle
five thousand pounds on my girl, I will, with pleasure, consent to your
union; and afterwards, my young friend--fight for fortune!"

Scarcely could Frederick find words to thank the worthy Booyers for his
generous consent, which raised a hope, that his father, who possessed
nearly eight thousand a year, might be prevailed on to part with the sum
proposed.

He wrote to Sir Arthur immediately: of his uncle's concurrence, he
entertained not a doubt; and impatiently waited the answer which would,
as he imagined, confirm or destroy the happiness of his life.

At last it arrived--and in an instant doomed him to despair! Sir Arthur,
after expressing his surprise at the application, reminded him of the
Captain's agreement to establish him in life. To him, therefore, he
desired Frederick to make his claim; and concluded with expressly
forbidding any farther demands.

"Here then end all my flattering prospects of felicity!" sighed
Frederick.--"Unkind father! Unjustly you condemn me to wretchedness, to
enrich a son, whose regard, I am convinced, does not exceed, nor perhaps
equal--mine. To my uncle I can never apply--he has done too much
already."

He pensively paced the room, when the appearance of the Captain roused
him from his disagreeable reflections. The concern he felt was too
deeply impressed on his countenance, to escape the observation of his
uncle, who, perceiving the letter of his brother lying on the table,
immediately read it.

"This accounts for your unusual dejection, Frederick," he said. "But for
what purpose do you want five thousand pounds?"

The question brought on an explanation. Frederick ingenuously confessed
the state of his heart, and briefly recounted his interview with Ellen
and the Lieutenant. The Captain expressed his approbation of his choice,
and the conduct of Booyers; adding, with a smile, "Your father's
refusal, Frederick, shall never be a hindrance to your happiness. But
where is my Ellenor? I am come to escort her to the Hall, where Sir
Henry impatiently expects her; Mr. Talton having agreed to remain there
till his affairs are finally adjusted."

Mrs. Howard and her friends were soon informed of the Captain's return,
and the proposed removal; and, leaving directions for the servants to
follow them, they proceeded to the Hall.

Sir Henry received them with open arms, and warmly congratulated his
aunt on beholding her once more beneath her paternal roof. He then
conducted them to the drawing-room, where they were soon after joined by
Mr. Talton and the Captain, who had left them on their arrival. The
latter advanced to his nephew, and, presenting him with a writing,
said, "This deed, Frederick, I had executed whilst at Pembroke; and
rejoice it is thus in my power to render you happy, by securing you the
means of uniting yourself to an amiable woman. Not that I would have you
regard this as my final intention in your favour. The affection and
attention I have so many years received from you, I can never
recompense: but at my death, or before, if it be requisite, you shall
find me mindful of the obligation."

Frederick opened the deed, which secured to him the sum of twenty
thousand pounds. "My dear--my generous uncle!" he exclaimed, clasping
his hand with grateful affection, "never can I sufficiently acknowledge
the many instances I have experienced of your regard. Poor indeed must
be my attempts to thank you; but every act is treasured in the inmost
recesses of my heart!"

The Captain embraced him.--"Enough, my dear Frederick: if you be happy,
I am fully gratified."

The worthy Booyers, warmly participated in the joy of the moment; and
readily agreed to the Captain's proposal, that the nuptials should take
place at an early period.

Sir Henry, at the same time, took the opportunity of presenting Louise
and his aunt with the fortunes his father had mentioned. The Captain
would have checked his generosity; but he declared that the wish of his
father should be fulfilled the same as though specified in a legal will.
Then gaily turning to Eliza, he continued, "I must now become a
supplicant! Will you, my beloved girl, consent to bless me with your
hand on the day your friend, Ellen, becomes the bride of Howard?"

"I despise affectation, Henry," answered Eliza: "yet not from me, but my
mother, you must receive your answer. If she grant your suit, I will
cheerfully attend you to the altar."

"Dearest, best of girls!" exclaimed Sir Henry.--"To you then, my mother,
I must now refer."

"And from that saucy smile on your brow, Harry," said Mrs. Blond,
laughing, "I should suppose, you think yourself ensured of success,
before you ask. I will not, however, disappoint you: the happiness of
Corbet is too dear to my heart."

"Would you, my dear Madam," said Talton, "as readily consent to a
proposal from me, I should rejoice in depriving Sir Henry of his mother:
or rather--as I ever wished--to become his father. As Corbet Hall will
so soon own the lovely Eliza for its mistress, I should deem myself
inexpressibly happy, would her mother consent to grace the mansion of
Talton. I have long regarded Sir Henry as my son; I love your daughter
as my own: and by uniting our families, I flatter myself it would
increase the felicity of all."

"A fair proposal!" said the Captain. "Never demur, my dear Mrs. Blond;
but accede to it as cheerfully as you did to Sir Henry's."

"This proposal," replied Mrs. Blond, in some confusion, "requires
consideration; but my answer shall be sincere."

Mr. Talton urged no farther; and preparations were commenced for the
marriages of Sir Henry and Frederick; when, one morning, a servant
hastily entered, and announced the arrival of a messenger from
Cornwall.

"From Cornwall!" exclaimed Sir Henry. "Good God! what can this mean?
Some fatal accident, I am afraid, has befallen my mother! Show the
messenger up, this instant."

The servant obeyed, and an elderly countryman entered the room. He
advanced with an humble bow to Sir Henry, and, in simple language,
informed him, he rented the principal part of the Cornwall estate,
belonging to Lady Corbet; who was then at the old Mansion-house,
confined by a fractured arm; and as the surgeon who attended her,
apprehended she was in danger, he thought it requisite to acquaint Sir
Henry; more especially as Lady Corbet, who, he acknowledged, was
sometimes delirious, had once expressed a wish to see him and a
gentleman of the name of Talton.

"I will immediately go to Cornwall," said Sir Henry. "The attentions of
a son may soothe the anguish which oppresses her. And you, Mr.
Talton--will you accompany me?--My mother may be worse than she is
represented."

"I will readily accompany you, Sir Henry," said Mr. Talton. "If I have
ceased to regard Lady Corbet with affection, I do not forget the
sentiments I once entertained."

Orders were accordingly given to prepare for their departure, when Sir
Henry anxiously inquired the particulars of the accident which had
befallen his mother.

Lady Corbet, who, on quitting the Hall, had designed proceeding to
France, altered her resolution before she reached Pembroke; and,
crossing the Channel, went to her estate in Cornwall, where she was soon
after joined by Mallet, and where she proposed to remain, deeming
herself secure from the knowledge of Mr. Talton, till she should learn
his farther proceedings; and whence, if she found it necessary, she
could instantly fly the kingdom.

Mallet had been with her about a week, the tenant informed Sir Henry,
when a disagreement had arisen, which occasioned his abrupt departure.
That Lady Corbet had appeared very much agitated, and at last commanded
a chaise to be prepared, to convey her to Plymouth; for which place she
set out, but had not proceeded more than half a mile, when, by the
carelessness of the driver, the chaise was overturned, and her arm
severely injured. Lady Corbet was brought, by some country-people, back
to the mansion-house, and a surgeon sent for, who on examining the limb,
declared there was a necessity to amputate it; but Lady Corbet
peremptorily refused to submit to the operation, and desired him to set
the bone, which had been broken in three separate places. He obeyed; but
a fever immediately followed; and, as he had every apprehension of a
mortification ensuing, he had desired the farmer to hasten and acquaint
Sir Henry.

Sir Henry's countenance assumed a more pallid hue at this relation;
impatiently he inquired if the horses were ready: and on Mrs. Howard
anxiously urging him to take some refreshment before he commenced his
journey, he wrung her hand, saying, "I feel your affectionate care, my
dear aunt; but at this moment my heart is too much oppressed to let me
think of refreshments. Even now--may not my mother be expiring: ere she
forgives--or knows how dear she still is to the heart of--her Henry."

Louise regarded Sir Henry some moments, with an expressive
countenance--"Let me too, my brother, accompany you. My humble affection
will not be rejected, and the approving blessing of a mother may yet
reward the years of anxious solicitude, I have experienced."

"You could not, my dear girl," answered Sir Henry, "support the fatigue
of travelling, at the rate I wish to go. Yet follow us--Harland will
escort you." Harland readily consented, and a chaise was prepared, in
which they departed, in less than an hour after Sir Henry.

In the mean time, Sir Henry and Mr. Talton travelled with the utmost
expedition to Llaugharne, and, crossing the Channel, proceeded towards
the ancient seat of Lady Corbet. They were received by Mrs. Brown, the
tenant's wife, who informed them the surgeon's fears were verified; a
mortification had commenced, and Lady Corbet, at last sensible of her
danger, had, that morning, desired Sir Henry and Louise might be sent
for. Though prepared for this intelligence, Sir Henry was still affected
on receiving it; he, however, struggled with his feelings, and requested
she would inform his mother of his arrival, and his wish to see her, if
her spirits were equal to the interview. She soon returned, and
conducted him to her apartment. The surgeon and a female attendant were
stationed by the bed, on which, supported by pillows, was extended the
still beautiful Lady Corbet. The fever's hectic glow had succeeded the
light bloom of health on her cheek; and the wild lustre of her eye
plainly showed reason retained not its full powers. Sir Henry sprung to
embrace her, and in a voice softened by tenderness and grief, breathed a
prayer for the continuance of her existence.

"I little thought, Harry," she said, after an internal struggle, "ever
to have beholden you again: but retributive justice has overtaken me,
and I must submit to my fate!--But where is Louise?" she impatiently
continued. "Does she despise the sufferings of a mother; or didst thou
enviously wish to deprive her of a blessing?"

"Ah, my mother," answered Sir Henry, "stab not my heart by such a
supposition;--in a few hours Louise will be here."

"And in a few hours," repeated Lady Corbet, with energy, "I may be
numbered with the dead!"

"I do not apprehend your dissolution so soon as that," said the surgeon;
"although I thought it my duty to tell you there are no longer any hopes
of your recovery. Yet I would wish you not to increase your fever by too
much exertion in speaking."

"Peace, dotard!" exclaimed Lady Corbet, angrily. "Without thou couldest
bid me live!--But no--no--I must die: there are indeed no hopes for
me!--Let me see Talton--they told me he was here." Her attendant
hastened to desire his presence, and the surgeon renewing his request
that she might be kept quiet, and as composed as possible, retired;
promising to return in the evening. Mr. Talton obeyed the summons. On
his approach, Lady Corbet said: "Thou art come then to behold her, who
would have injured thee to the utmost--had it been in her power! Rejoice
then in my fall--exult over my ashes--and, in the torments I now endure,
be fully revenged!"

"Far be revenge from my heart," replied Talton: "to pity and relieve are
its dictates; but never to triumph over the fallen or afflicted!"

"Well--well!" said Lady Corbet, with quickness, "I believe thee! Though
were revenge thy wish, thou hast it--in its utmost extent! Mallet,--the
ungrateful Mallet, has deserted me!--Struck with Louise, and her
behaviour on the evening of his detection, he wished the restoration of
her fortune; but instead of requesting, he commanded it! Had he
entreated--pleaded her claim to maternal attention and justice, I think
I should have complied! But, unused to commands, I peremptorily refused
him: and, in return, he threatened, by the law's aid, to force me to a
restitution of my aunt's fortune! Rendered furious by this insolence, I
forbade him my sight; and, without seeking to mitigate my anger, he
departed for France. Unable to endure his absence, when my passion
abated, I determined on following him; but fate forbade it, and, by
means of a menial wretch, has torn the fascinating joys of life from my
grasp, and hurled destruction on my head!" She burst into tears. "All
will soon be over, Harry!--I rejoiced when Corbet died: he loved
you--and was beloved: but no one will sorrow or weep for me!"

"Yes--yes, my mother!" said Sir Henry, "I will sorrow and weep for thee
too!"

"Lay me not, I charge you, Harry," she wildly continued, "by Corbet--my
ashes must not mingle with his. No, no--in the vault by my father--there
I shall rest in peace!" She sunk exhausted on her pillow. Sir Henry
anxiously watched the changes of her countenance, whilst Mr. Talton,
with pity, contemplated the wretched situation of a woman, he once
thought the most perfect of her sex.

A broken slumber shed a partial oblivion over her senses, and for some
hours relieved her from the tortures of remembrance. She awoke more
collected, and impatiently inquired if Louise were arrived? The rattling
of a carriage round the spacious court, announced her approach, and in a
few minutes the agitated Louise was pressed to the bosom of her mother!

"Welcome, Louise!" murmured Lady Corbet.--"Child of affection, though
thou hast never been regarded as such--yet I love thee now, Louise.--And
art thou the husband of my child?" she continued to Harland.--"Then I
will say thou too art welcome. Poor thou marriedst my Louise; I
therefore believe thou dost love her; and let not the remembrance of
her mother ever induce thee to slight or contemn her. Mine was the
vice--be mine the shame: if aught can ever be reflected from Louise! But
no--no; the virtues of my Louise, like the beams of the morning, shall
rise superior to the darkness of her parents actions!--Dark, indeed!"
she repeated, with a convulsive sigh.--"For we deserted thy infant
innocence! Yet forgive me, Louise--curse not my memory; I will make thee
rich amends for the injuries I have done thee!"

"Name not injuries, my mother;" sobbed Louise; "all is rewarded by this
moment of affection! My love, my duty shall prove me worthy of it."

"I shall not experience them," said Lady Corbet, wildly. "The icy finger
of death has marked the hour of my existence!"

"Not so--my mother," replied Louise, attempting to speak with
cheerfulness. "My hand shall minister to thy wants; my arm support thee;
affection will teach me the means of relieving thy anguish; and in the
bosom of her Louise, my mother shall yet find peace and happiness!"

"Peace and happiness!" repeated Lady Corbet, franticly. "Oh, torture me
not, by placing to my view blessings I must never enjoy! In thy bosom,
peace and happiness may dwell, but not for me! Even now the grave is
open to receive me, and all beyond is horror! Thee, I have
injured--Corbet and his son--Ellenor too,--Blond and Eliza--shall point
the finger of condemnation at me, and say--'Not one good action marked
her life!'--Oh, let me live--Off with this fractured limb--Tear me to
atoms: let me but live to atone for my crimes!--The account is too dark
to answer before the Judge I have offended!"

Louise shrunk aghast from her frantic mother, who, with convulsive
eagerness, attempted to tear the bandages from her arm.

Sir Henry endeavoured to restrain her.--"This must not be, my mother,
you hasten the dissolution you so much dread."

"Hence, audacious boy!" she angrily exclaimed. "Darest thou lay the hand
of violence on thy parent! Now, indeed, thou meritest the hatred I have
shown thee! Yet stay--stay: let me not add another sin to the number of
my account! I believe thou lovest me, thou hast oft evinced it. Yet, not
to thee can I fly for consolation; the injuries I have done thee, are
too numerous, and alone sufficient to overwhelm me with perdition!"

Mr. Talton drew her fevered hand from Sir Henry's, and gently pressing
it, said, "Raise your heart in prayer, Lady Corbet, and seek for
consolation in the mercy of Heaven!"

"Can I form a prayer--or ask a blessing," said Lady Corbet, "when every
action of my life is marked with vice? No, no--there is no mercy for
me--I never afforded it!"

"Lay your crimes at the feet of your Saviour," replied Mr. Talton,
solemnly: "remember, he died for the sinner: and the first tear shed, of
true repentance, restores you to the bosom of your God!"

The frenzied eye of Lady Corbet rested with piercing keenness on that of
Talton. "Repentance!" she ejaculated. "Oh, if that will avail me, deeply
indeed will I repent. Yet save me--save me: let me not die! I will be
patient--calm. But send for the surgeon; I no longer dread a mutilated
frame: and it may not yet be too late to preserve existence!"

Sir Henry hastily rose--"I will seek the surgeon this instant----"

"Not you, Harry!" cried Lady Corbet, extending her hand to detain him.
"Quit not my sight.--Little as I have loved you through life, I wish not
at this moment to be deserted. Yet, send for the surgeon--and be quick;
let me but live, and I will atone for all!"

Harland perceiving Sir Henry's distress sent a servant, who soon
returned with the surgeon. On being informed of Lady Corbet's
determination, he shook his head, saying--"It is now, I am afraid, too
late. Had she submitted to the operation at first--all had been well."

Anxiously Sir Henry watched the intelligence of his eye, as he examined
her arm, and with a sigh received the account. It was, indeed, not only
too late to amputate the limb; but her state was such, that the
succeeding day would be the utmost limit of her existence!

A groan burst from the bosom of the wretched patient, who, in agonized
frenzy, alternately entreated the surgeon to save her, and implored the
mercy of Heaven. Medicine was administered to compose her, which, in
some degree, had the effect; and the remainder of the day and following
night passed in broken slumber and prayer.

The ensuing morning, on awaking, she perceived Sir Henry and Louise
kneeling by her bed; and, regarding them some moments, with a tremulous
voice said--"And dost thou, Harry, kneel to Heaven, to intercede for thy
guilty parent?--Oh God! accept his prayers, though mine be rejected! and
for each ill I have--and would have done him, shower a blessing on his
head! But I must be quick. Reason totters, and life beats uncertain at
my heart. Talton--Harland--come hither. Pursue not Mallet. The wealth he
has taken--let him retain! Let Louise's fortune be restored, and the
rest of my property equally divided between her and her brother--except
my picture; which, Talton, I would wish you to have; and, when you view
the resemblance, let pity draw a veil over my vices, and waft a prayer
to Heaven--they may there be forgiven!--Pray for me, my gentle
Louise!--Harry, forgive thy mother. Leave me not whilst a symptom of
life remains; bear with my wanderings, and whilst I have sense to give
it--receive a last blessing!"

--Life, however, was not so near its close, though it fluctuated in its
channels. Repeated faintings prepared them for the last awful moment.
Sir Henry and Louise, as Lady Corbet had requested, never left her; and
evening was fast closing as she faintly grasped the hand of Sir
Henry--drew him nearer to her, and, sighing a broken prayer--expired on
the bosom of Louise!--




CHAPTER VI.


A piercing scream from Louise as she sunk insensible by the side of her
mother, roused Mr. Talton and Harland from a serious reflexion on the
object before them. The Lieutenant gently raised and conveyed her to an
adjoining room, where, by the assistance of Mrs. Brown, life soon
returned. He attempted not to restrain the first effusions of filial
sorrow; the heart of Louise, he knew, was the seat of sensibility; but
fortitude and religion were likewise its inmates. In the latter she
found a resource; and he had soon the satisfaction of seeing her
features impressed with a mild though sad serenity.

Sir Henry and Mr. Talton, in the mean time, silently retired to pay that
tribute to the memory of Lady Corbet, she had not altogether merited;
but, to Sir Henry, the last moments of her life had atoned for her
preceding conduct: nor could Mr. Talton retain a spark of resentment for
her ungenerous behaviour to himself: over her actions he drew the veil
of oblivion, and gave a sigh and tear of pity to the untimely close of
her existence.

The next morning he conferred with Sir Henry, and, at his desire,
undertook the care of the funeral. As Lady Corbet had requested, her
remains were conveyed to Holly seat, and deposited in the vault, by her
father. Mr. Talton, Sir Henry, and Harland attended; nor would Louise be
debarred from paying this final mark of respect to her mother; and a
last tear fell on her coffin, as she silently preferred a prayer, that,
with her ashes, the remembrance of her vices might be for ever buried
from the world!

With minds depressed from the scenes they had so lately witnessed, they
were reconveyed to Corbet Hall, where, to the surprise of Sir Henry, he
was informed the Captain and Frederick were at Sir Arthur Howard's.

Two days, indeed, after he set out for Cornwall, Frederick received a
letter from Lady Howard, to acquaint him with the death of his brother,
who, in hunting, had been thrown from his horse, and killed on the spot:
and, as the violence of Sir Arthur's grief, at this untimely loss of his
favourite son, had brought on a severe illness, she had written to
request his immediate presence, with that of the Captain.

They accordingly took a hasty leave of their friends, and returned with
the messenger to Howard Hall, where they were received by Lady Howard,
and an affecting interview took place between her and her son: nor was
the Captain unwelcomed; she had ever felt for him the affection of a
sister; but, as duty was her first consideration, yielded to the
imperious commands of her husband, that he should from that time be
regarded as an alien to the family.

Sir Arthur, she informed them, was still confined to his bed; the
violence of his grief, which they at first apprehended would have
destroyed his reason, had exhausted itself; and he was then sunk into a
gloomy sorrow, which threatened to retain a longer influence on his
mind; the arrival of the Captain and Frederick (now the heir to his
title and estates), she, however, hoped, would not only rouse him from
an unavailing grief, but be the means of effecting a perfect
reconciliation between them.

Lady Howard was right. The attentions of his brother and son proved
highly gratifying to Sir Arthur, who, in a few days, consented to rejoin
his family.

The long-neglected Frederick now appeared to gain an interest in his
heart; though a sigh oft swelled his bosom at the recollection of the
deceased Arthur: but, the rising gloom was ever carefully dispelled by
the lively Theodosia, to whom, since the death of his son, he had
behaved with an unwonted show of affection.

Six weeks passed, when the Captain proposed returning to Corbet Hall;
and, knowing the anxiety which preyed on Frederick's mind, respecting
Ellen, he took an opportunity to mention his engagement with her, to
Sir Arthur: who, contrary to his expectation, readily gave his consent
to their union. When a boy, he said, he had been intimate with her
father, who once saved his life; and as her family was good, indeed
noble, he would wave the consideration of the fortune Frederick, as his
heir, had a right to expect with a wife. He could not, however, he
added, consent to his leaving him entirely; he should pass at least half
his time, till his marriage, with him. To this, Frederick cheerfully
agreed, and, a few days after, returned with the Captain, to Sir
Henry's.

During their absence, Mr. Talton had so far improved his suit, that Mrs.
Blond consented again to enter the marriage state. The late Sir Henry,
she frankly told him, was the only man she had ever loved. The virtues
and amiable disposition of Blond had merited her esteem and sincerest
friendship; those she had still to give, but nothing farther: her
affections were buried in the tomb of Corbet. The gift, he felt, was
still too valuable to be rejected; and he doubted not he yet might
realize the scenes of domestic happiness he had formerly planned.

As the marriages of Sir Henry and Frederick had been deferred, on
account of the decease of Lady Corbet and young Arthur, it was agreed
that, at the time again appointed for that ceremony, Mrs. Blond should
likewise yield her hand to Mr. Talton. Edward sighed as he heard these
arrangements; and the Captain, with concern, perceived his increasing
dejection at his unsuccessful inquiry after the fair Unknown, for whom
he had in vain searched the greatest part of Caermarthen. He then
declared his intention of going to Oxford; to inquire if perchance any
of his acquaintance had seen her since he quitted the University? The
Captain could not oppose his determination, and as Louise and Harland
were going to London, to St. Ledger's, they accompanied him to
Oxfordshire, having promised Sir Henry to return to Wales, before the
time appointed for the marriages.

In the mean while, preparations were forwarded for that occasion.
Frederick, as his father had desired, passed a considerable part of his
time at Howard Hall. Sir Arthur's regard for him appeared daily to
increase, and on Frederick expressing a wish that he would honour the
nuptials with his presence, he instantly complied; and, with Lady Howard
and Theodosia, accompanied him to Sir Henry's. The arrival of Harland
and Louise, with the St. Ledger family, added to the pleasure of their
society. Edward only was absent, who continued a fruitless search, till
the day preceding that fixed for the union of his friends, when he
arrived, so apparently ill, that the Captain began to be seriously
alarmed.

Edward endeavoured to rally his spirits; and on Sir Henry and
Frederick's joining him, to chide his long desertion, with forced
cheerfulness, answered their good-humoured reproaches, and prepared to
attend them to the drawing-room. The Captain introduced him to their
several friends; but on presenting Theodosia, Edward, with exulting
transports, exclaimed--"O God, my father! it is my unknown----it is----"

"Theodosia, the daughter of Sir Arthur Howard," interrupted the Captain,
with vivacity. Sir Arthur, hearing his name, advanced, and instantly
recognised Edward, to whom he proffered his hand, and, reminding him of
the accident at Oxford, renewed his thanks for the service he had
rendered his daughter.

"Your thanks, I am afraid, Sir Arthur," said the Captain, with a smile,
"will not sufficiently recompense my son for that evening's adventure.
He loves your daughter, and has for some months been seeking her. You
know my fortune; if, on a farther acquaintance, you approve him for a
son-in-law, he shall have half at his marriage, the remainder at the
decease of myself and his mother."

Sir Arthur paused a moment--but the offer was too advantageous to be
rejected, and he readily acceded to it.

"But what says Theodosia?" asked the Captain. "Without her consent, ours
are of no effect."

"Her consent!" repeated Sir Arthur. "She shall consent! Let her refuse
if she dare: I will not again be fooled!"

Theodosia attempted not to reply; the deepest confusion oppressed her;
yet she withdrew not her hand from Edward, but with a timid interceding
glance, raised her eyes to her father. The flush of anger was fast
crimsoning the cheek of Sir Arthur, at the idea of her not according
with the proposal of her uncle, when Lady Howard joined them, and
tenderly taking the hand of her daughter, said--"Have some
consideration, Sir Arthur, to the delicacy of my girl. Disobedience to a
father she truly loves, is, I am certain, far from her heart or wishes;
but on this subject, unprepared as she was, no answer could be so
proper as her silence. Your nephew has sincere friends in his cause,
and, aided by time, need not despair of success."

To her mother, Theodosia had mentioned the attention of Edward, when at
Oxford, and their subsequent interview in Wales; pourtraying him in such
favourable colours, and dwelling on each word and incident with such
pleasure and minuteness, as showed he had made no inconsiderable
impression on her heart.

She now directed a look of grateful acknowledgment to Lady Howard, for
the relief she had afforded her, whilst Sir Arthur, in a milder tone,
replied: "Well--well, Madam, you may be right; but you know I do not
like to be trifled with."

This discovery, as unexpected as pleasing, added to the happiness of
every individual; nor was Edward long in obtaining a confession; her
affections were too nearly interested in his favour, to let duty have
the merit of her compliance with the wishes of her father.

At last the morn so ardently expected, arrived! The tenants of Sir
Henry, who the same day attained his one-and-twentieth year, assembled
on the lawn, and proceeded with them to church, where Sir Henry, Mr.
Talton, and Frederick, received the hands of their destined brides. Nor
would old Thomas be denied the gratification of attending his master on
this occasion, at which no one more sincerely rejoiced: he appeared to
have shaken off the infirmities of age; and after the ceremony, joining
the tenants, conducted them back to the lawn, where a noble banquet, by
order of their generous landlord, added to the pleasure of the
peasantry; and a rural ball concluded the day, in which Sir Henry and
his friends did not disdain to join.

For three weeks the Hall and Mr. Talton's house were proclaimed open as
the hearts of their owners; and at the expiration of that time, the
whole party proceeded to the seat of Sir Arthur, where he yielded to the
solicitations of Edward, and resigned the hand of Theodosia. The
liberality of the Captain on this occasion awakened the generosity of
his brother, and Howard Hall for some weeks vied with the hospitable
mansions of Corbet and Talton. Sir Arthur did more--he insisted on
resigning the family seat to Frederick and Ellen; himself retiring, with
his Lady, to a smaller one he possessed within less than a mile, where,
as he said, he could daily visit or be visited by them.

Another month, however, elapsed before they thought of separating; and
then with an unanimous promise of frequently visiting each other.

Harland and his Louise returned to Harland Hill, where, a few months
after, she made him the exulting father of a lovely boy. This
circumstance endeared her not only more to him, but to his parents; at
whose request he relinquished the service, and consented to reside with
them. The amiable manners of Louise had imperceptibly softened the
impatience and harshness of his temper, and his increasing tenderness as
a husband and father, fully justified her in the choice she had made.

Captain Howard purchased an estate near Sir Henry and Mr. Talton's; and
in the society and affection of his Ellenor found an ample recompence
for the years of unhappiness he had experienced on her account. Edward
and Theodosia, at his desire, consented to reside beneath his paternal
roof: whilst Sir Arthur, who since the death of his son had shown an
unusual urbanity of disposition, again regarded him with fraternal
kindness, which was returned with the sincerest friendship by the
Captain.

Time softened the sorrow of the worthy Booyers for the loss of Hannah;
and, though he ever dwelt on her memory with tenderness, he no longer
felt those poignant emotions, the remembrance or mention of her would at
one time have occasioned. Frederick, with a delicacy equal to his
regard, presented him with an estate adjoining Howard Hall, which
produced him an easy competence: from the happiness of Ellen he derived
his own, and in her children found a source of amusement for his
declining age.

Mr. Talton was justified in his choice of Mrs. Blond; nor had either of
them cause to regret the day on which they were united. So far from
deeming her remembrance of Corbet or Blond a slight to himself, he would
join her in the praise he thought justly due to their merits. This
behaviour increased the regard of his wife; and if a sigh sometimes
obtruded for their unhappy fate, the recollection of Talton never failed
to restore her cheerfulness.

For Mrs. St. Ledger (the once unfortunate Sister Françoise), Louise
retained the sincerest regard; whilst the friendship of that amiable
woman fully recompensed her for the loss of her mother.--Three years
after her marriage, the Marquis de Valois and his family returned to
France, whither Harland attended his Louise, and they passed some
months at the seat of that nobleman. On their return to England, in
which they were accompanied by the Marchioness and her daughters,
they were surprised, on entering Abbeville, by the appearance of Mallet;
his dress immediately informed them he was in the service of the French
Monarch, though in the lowest rank. He as instantly recognized Louise,
who, with mingled sensations of pleasure and grief, received his
embrace. He had, on quitting England, proceeded to Paris, where the
gaming-table soon despoiled him of the wealth he had obtained from Lady
Corbet. He then for some time gained a precarious livelihood, by
practising those wiles by which himself had been defrauded; but being
detected, was obliged to fly, and as a last resource for the
preservation of existence, had taken up a musket. These adventures,
glossed over with the title of misfortunes, fully awakened the pity of
Harland, who readily complied with the wish of Louise, to settle an
annuity on him for life; he would have urged his return to England, but
Mallet declared his resolution never to revisit his native country. He
had, he said, since the death of Lady Corbet, entered into other
engagements, which he by no means wished to break, though he declared
himself extremely willing to quit the army. They accordingly procured
his discharge, and presenting him with a sum of money for immediate use,
he set out for the south of France, where he proposed to fix his
residence, whilst Harland and Louise continued their way toward England,
where the society of her friends soon obliterated the painful
remembrance of an unworthy parent.

Old Thomas, at his earnest solicitation, still continued with Sir Henry;
who, feeling himself indebted to that faithful servant for the
restoration of his fortune, would have made him independent: but no
consideration could induce him to accept of any reward which should
separate him from his master; with whom he begged he might pass the
remainder of his days. Sir Henry yielded to his wish; and by every
indulgence strove to requite the services he had rendered him.

Sir Henry, satisfied with his own conduct, could look back on every
action without regret, and to each succeeding day with confidence and
pleasure. Revered by his dependants, and esteemed by all who knew him,
he experienced the true delight of a benevolent heart; whilst in the
affection of Eliza and his children, and the warm attachment of his
friends, he found a recompence for the sorrows he had formerly known.


THE END.

Printed by C. Spilsbury, Angel-Court, Snowhill.




Transcriber's Note


Punctuation errors have been corrected. The quotation at the end of
Chapter II remains open as the quotation extends into Chapter III.

Errata mentioned in Volume I have been incorporated.

  Page 2, Line 19, for "of," read with.
     130,      15, for "the," read this.
     206,      14, for "them," read him.
     226,      17, dele "with."

Inconsistent capitalisation of 'Parsonage' and variant spellings have
been preserved.

The following misprints have been corrected.


  Page 2:
  render an union between her and his son desiraable;
  changed to
  render an union between her and his son desirable;

  Page 33:
  in a private drawer of my father's escrutoire.
  changed to
  in a private drawer of my father's escritoire.

  Page 111:
  but bein certain they were the instigators
  changed to
  but being certain they were the instigators

  Page 134:
  I can scarely, my dear Sir, express the pleasure
  changed to
  I can scarcely, my dear Sir, express the pleasure

  Page 243:
  in which they were accomcompanied by the Marchioness
  changed to
  in which they were accompanied by the Marchioness


